{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq1\fcharset128 MS Mincho;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\qc\f0\fs72 NIGHTFALL\par
\fs56 Isaac Asimov\par
\pard\fi216\qj\f1\fs24\par
\par
\par
\pard\fi216\qc\f0 VERSION 1.2 (DEC 2002) Proofed and formatted by <Bibliophile>.\par
\pard\fi216\qj\f1\par
\pard\f0\page\par
\pard\li1440\ri1440\sa120\qj\fs20 If the stars should appear one night in a thousand years, how would men believe and adore, and preserve for many generations the remembrance of the city of God?\rdblquote\par
EMERSON\par
\pard\fi216\qj\f1\fs24\par
\f0 Aton 77, director of Saro University, thrust out a belligerent lower lip and glared at the young newspaperman in a hot fury.\par
Theremon 762 took that fury in his stride. In his earlier days, when his now widely syndicated column was only a mad idea in a cub reporter\rquote s mind, he had specialized in \ldblquote impossible\rdblquote  interviews. It had cost him bruises, black eyes, and broken bones; but it had given him an ample supply of coolness and self-confidence. So he lowered the outthrust hand that had been so pointedly ignored and calmly waited for the aged director to get over the worst. Astronomers were queer ducks, anyway, and if Aton\rquote s actions of the last two months meant anything; this same Aton was the queer-duckiest of the lot.\par
Aton 77 found his voice, and though it trembled with restrained emotion, the careful, somewhat pedantic phraseology, for which the famous astronomer was noted, did not abandon him.\par
\ldblquote Sir,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote you display an infernal gall in coming to me with that impudent proposition of yours.\rdblquote  The husky telephotographer of the Observatory, Beenay 25, thrust a tongue\rquote s tip across dry lips and interposed nervously, \ldblquote Now, sir, after all--\rdblquote\par
The director turned to him and lifted a white eyebrow.\par
\ldblquote Do not interfere, Beenay. I will credit you with good intentions in bringing this man here; but I will tolerate no insubordination now.\rdblquote\par
Theremon decided it was time to take a part. \ldblquote Director Aton, if you\rquote ll let me finish what I started saying, I think--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t believe, young man,\rdblquote  retorted Aton, \ldblquote that anything you could say now would count much as compared with your daily columns of these last two months. You have led a vast newspaper campaign against the efforts of myself and my colleagues to organize the world against the menace which it is now too late to avert. You have done your best with your highly personal attacks to make the staff of this Observatory objects of ridicule.\rdblquote\par
The director lifted a copy of the Saro City Chronicle from the table and shook it at Theremon furiously. \ldblquote Even a person of your well-known impudence should have hesitated before coming to me with a request that he be allowed to cover today\rquote s events for his paper. Of all newsmen, you!\rdblquote\par
Aton dashed the newspaper to the floor, strode to the window, and clasped his arms behind his back.\par
\ldblquote You may leave,\rdblquote  he snapped over his shoulder. He stared moodily out at the skyline where Gamma, the brightest of the planet\rquote s six suns, was setting. It had already faded and yellowed into the horizon mists, and Aton knew he would never see it again as a sane man. He whirled. \ldblquote No, wait, come here!\rdblquote  He gestured peremptorily. \ldblquote I\rquote ll give you your story.\rdblquote\par
The newsman had made no motion to leave, and now he approached the old man slowly. Aton gestured outward.\par
\ldblquote Of the six suns, only Beta is left in the sky. Do you see it?\rdblquote\par
The question was rather unnecessary. Beta was almost at zenith, its ruddy light flooding the landscape to an unusual orange as the brilliant rays of setting Gamma died. Beta was at aphelion. It was small; smaller than Theremon had ever seen it before, and for the moment it was undisputed ruler of Lagash\rquote s sky.\par
Lagash\rquote s own sun, Alpha, the one about which it revolved, was at the antipodes, as were the two distant companion pairs. The red dwarf Beta--Alpha\rquote s immediate companion--was alone, grimly alone.\par
Aton\rquote s upturned face flushed redly in the sunlight. \ldblquote In just under four hours,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote civilization, as we know it, comes to an end. It will do so because, as you see. Beta is the only sun in the sky.\rdblquote  He smiled grimly. \ldblquote Print that! There\rquote ll be no one to read it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But if it turns out that four hours pass--and another four--and nothing happens?\rdblquote  asked Theremon softly.\par
\ldblquote Don\rquote t let that worry you. Enough will happen.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Granted! And still--if nothing happens?\rdblquote\par
For a second time, Beenay 25 spoke. \ldblquote Sir, I think you ought to listen to him.\rdblquote\par
Theremon said, \ldblquote Put it to a vote, Director Aton.\rdblquote\par
There was a stir among the remaining five members of the Observatory staff, who till now had maintained an attitude of wary neutrality.\par
\ldblquote That,\rdblquote  stated Aton flatly, \ldblquote is not necessary.\rdblquote  He drew out his pocket watch. \ldblquote Since your good friend, Beenay, insists so urgently, I will give you five minutes. Talk away.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good! Now, just what difference would it make if you allowed me to take down an eyewitness account of what\rquote s to come? If your prediction comes true, my presence won\rquote t hurt; for in that case my column would never be written. On the other hand, if nothing comes of it, you will just have to expect ridicule or worse. It would be wise to leave that ridicule to friendly hands.\rdblquote\par
Aton snorted. \ldblquote Do you mean yours when you speak of friendly hands?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Certainly!\rdblquote  Theremon sat down and crossed his legs.\par
\ldblquote My columns may have been a little rough, but I gave you people the benefit of the doubt every time. After all. this is not the century to preach \lquote The end of the world is at hand\rquote  to Lagash. You have to understand that people don\rquote t believe the Book of Revelations anymore, and it annoys them to have scientists turn about-face and tell us the Cultists are right after all--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No such thing, young man,\rdblquote  interrupted Aton. \ldblquote While a great deal of our data has been supplied us by the Cult, our results contain none of the Cult\rquote s mysticism. Facts are facts, and the Cult\rquote s so-called mythology has certain facts behind it. We\rquote ve exposed them and ripped away their mystery. I assure you that the Cult hates us now worse than you do.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t hate you. I\rquote m just trying to tell you that the public is in an ugly humor. They\rquote re angry.\rdblquote\par
Aton twisted his mouth in derision. \ldblquote Let them be angry.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, but what about tomorrow?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote There\rquote ll be no tomorrow!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But if there is. Say that there is--just to see what happens. That anger might take shape into something serious. After all, you know, business has taken a nosedive these last two months. Investors don\rquote t really believe the world is coming to an end, but just the same they\rquote re being cagy with their money until it\rquote s all over. Johnny Public doesn\rquote t believe you, either, but the new spring furniture might just as well wait a few months--just to make sure.\par
\ldblquote You see the point. Just as soon as this is all over, the business interests will be after your hide. They\rquote ll say that if crackpots--begging your pardon--can upset the country\rquote s prosperity any time they want, simply by making some cockeyed prediction--it\rquote s up to the planet to prevent them. The sparks will fly, sir.\rdblquote\par
The director regarded the columnist sternly. \ldblquote And just what were you proposing to do to help the situation?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well\rdblquote --Theremon grinned--\ldblquote I was proposing to take charge of the publicity. I can handle things so that only the ridiculous side will show. It would be hard to stand, I admit, because I\rquote d have to make you all out to be a bunch of gibbering idiots, but if I can get people laughing at you, they might forget to be angry. In return for that, all my publisher asks is an exclusive story.\rdblquote\par
Beenay nodded and burst out, \ldblquote Sir, the rest of us think he\rquote s right. These last two months we\rquote ve considered everything but the million-to-one chance that there is an error somewhere in our theory or in our calculations. We ought to take care of that, too.\rdblquote\par
There was a murmur of agreement from the men grouped about the table, and Aton\rquote s expression became that of one who found his mouth full of something bitter and couldn\rquote t get rid of it.\par
\ldblquote You may stay if you wish, then. You will kindly refrain, however, from hampering us in our duties in any way. You will also remember that I am in charge of all activities here, and in spite of your opinions as expressed in your columns, I will expect full cooperation and full respect--\rdblquote\par
His hands were behind his back, and his wrinkled face thrust forward determinedly as he spoke. He might have continued indefinitely but for the intrusion of a new voice.\par
\ldblquote Hello, hello, hello!\rdblquote  It came in a high tenor, and the plump cheeks of the newcomer expanded in a pleased smile. \ldblquote What\rquote s this morgue-like atmosphere about here? No one\rquote s losing his nerve, I hope.\rdblquote\par
Aton started in consternation and said peevishly, \ldblquote Now what the devil are you doing here, Sheerin? I thought you were going to stay behind in the Hideout.\rdblquote\par
Sheerin laughed and dropped his stubby figure into a chair. \ldblquote Hideout be blowed! The place bored me. I wanted to be here, where things are getting hot. Don\rquote t you suppose I have my share of curiosity? I want to see these Stars the Cultists are forever speaking about.\rdblquote  He rubbed his hands and added in a soberer tone. \ldblquote It\rquote s freezing outside. The wind\rquote s enough to hang icicles on your nose. Beta doesn\rquote t seem to give any heat at all, at the distance it is.\rdblquote\par
The white-haired director ground his teeth in sudden exasperation. \ldblquote Why do you go out of your way to do crazy things, Sheerin? What kind of good are you around here?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What kind of good am I around there?\rdblquote  Sheerin spread his palms in comical resignation. \ldblquote A psychologist isn\rquote t worth his salt in the Hideout. They need men of action and strong, healthy women that can breed children. Me? I\rquote m a hundred pounds too heavy for a man of action, and I wouldn\rquote t be a success at breeding children. So why bother them with an extra mouth to feed? I feel better over here.\rdblquote\par
Theremon spoke briskly. \ldblquote Just what is the Hideout, sir?\rdblquote\par
Sheerin seemed to see the columnist for the first time. He frowned and blew his ample cheeks out. \ldblquote And just who in Lagash are you, redhead?\rdblquote\par
Aton compressed his lips and then muttered sullenly, \ldblquote That\rquote s Theremon 762, the newspaper fellow. I suppose you\rquote ve heard of him.\rdblquote\par
The columnist offered his hand. \ldblquote And, of course, you\rquote re Sheerin 501 of Saro University. I\rquote ve heard of you.\rdblquote  Then he repeated, \ldblquote What is this Hideout, sir?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  said Sheerin, \ldblquote we have managed to convince a few people of the validity of our prophecy of--er--doom, to be spectacular about it, and those few have taken proper measures. They consist mainly of the immediate members of the families of the Observatory staff, certain of the faculty of Saro University, and a few outsiders. Altogether, they number about three hundred, but three quarters are women and children.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I see! They\rquote re supposed to hide where the Darkness and the--er--Stars can\rquote t get at them, and then hold out when the rest of the world goes poof.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If they can. It won\rquote t be easy. With all of mankind insane, with the great cities going up in flames--environment will not be conducive to survival. But they have food, water, shelter, and weapons--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote They\rquote ve got more,\rdblquote  said Aton. \ldblquote They\rquote ve got all our records, except for what we will collect today. Those records will mean everything to the next cycle, and that\rquote s what must survive. The rest can go hang.\rdblquote\par
Theremon uttered a long, low whistle and sat brooding for several minutes. The men about the table had brought out a multi-chess board and started a six-member game. Moves were made rapidly and in silence. All eyes bent in furious concentration on the board. Theremon watched them intently and then rose and approached Aton, who sat apart in whispered conversation with Sheerin.\par
\ldblquote Listen,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote let\rquote s go somewhere where we won\rquote t bother the rest of the fellows. I want to ask some questions.\rdblquote\par
The aged astronomer frowned sourly at him, but Sheerin chirped up, \ldblquote Certainly. It will do me good to talk. It always does. Aton was telling me about your ideas concerning world reaction to a failure of the prediction--and I agree with you. I read your column pretty regularly, by the way, and as a general thing I like your views.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Please, Sheerin,\rdblquote  growled Aton.\par
\ldblquote Eh? Oh, all right. We\rquote ll go into the next room. It has softer chairs, anyway.\rdblquote\par
There were softer chairs in the next room. There were also thick red curtains on the windows and a maroon carpet on the floor. With the bricky light of Beta pouring in, the general effect was one of dried blood.\par
Theremon shuddered. \ldblquote Say, I\rquote d give ten credits for a decent dose of white light for just a second. I wish Gamma or Delta were in the sky.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What are your questions?\rdblquote  asked Aton. \ldblquote Please remember that our time is limited. In a little over an hour and a quarter we\rquote re going upstairs, and after that there will be no time for talk.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, here it is.\rdblquote  Theremon leaned back and folded his hands on his chest. \ldblquote You people seem so all-fired serious about this that I\rquote m beginning to believe you. Would you mind explaining what it\rquote s all about?\rdblquote\par
Aton exploded, \ldblquote Do you mean to sit there and tell me that you\rquote ve been bombarding us with ridicule without even finding out what we\rquote ve been trying to say?\rdblquote\par
The columnist grinned sheepishly. \ldblquote It\rquote s not that bad, sir. I\rquote ve got the general idea. You say there is going to be a world-wide Darkness in a few hours and that all mankind will go violently insane. What I want now is the science behind it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, you don\rquote t. No, you don\rquote t,\rdblquote  broke in Sheerin. \ldblquote If you ask Aton for that--supposing him to be in the mood to answer at all--he\rquote ll trot out pages of figures and volumes of graphs. You won\rquote t make head or tail of it. Now if you were to ask me, I could give you the layman\rquote s standpoint.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right; I ask you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then first I\rquote d like a drink.\rdblquote  He rubbed his hands and looked at Aton.\par
\ldblquote Water?\rdblquote  grunted Aton.\par
\ldblquote Don\rquote t be silly!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Don\rquote t you be silly. No alcohol today. It would be too easy to get my men drunk. I can\rquote t afford to tempt them.\rdblquote\par
The psychologist grumbled wordlessly. He turned to Theremon, impaled him with his sharp eyes, and began.\par
\ldblquote You realize, of course, that the history of civilization on Lagash displays a cyclic character--but I mean cyclic!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I know,\rdblquote  replied Theremon cautiously, \ldblquote that that is the current archaeological theory. Has it been accepted as a fact?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Just about. In this last century it\rquote s been generally agreed upon. This cyclic character is--or rather, was--one of the great mysteries. We\rquote ve located series of civilizations, nine of them definitely, and indications of others as well, all of which have reached heights comparable to our own, and all of which, without exception, were destroyed by fire at the very height of their culture.\par
\ldblquote And no one could tell why. All centers of culture were thoroughly gutted by fire, with nothing left behind to give a hint as to the cause.\rdblquote\par
Theremon was following closely. \ldblquote Wasn\rquote t there a Stone Age, too?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Probably, but as yet practically nothing is known of it, except that men of that age were little more than rather intelligent apes. We can forget about that.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I see. Go on!\rdblquote\par
There have been explanations of these recurrent catastrophes, all of a more or less fantastic nature. Some say that there are periodic rains of fire; some that Lagash passes through a sun every so often; some even wilder things. But there is one theory, quite different from all of these, that has been handed down over a period of centuries.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I know. You mean this myth of the \lquote Stars\rquote  that the Cultists have in their Book of Revelations.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Exactly,\rdblquote  rejoined Sheerin with satisfaction. \ldblquote The Cultists said that every two thousand and fifty years Lagash entered a huge cave, so that all the suns disappeared, and there came total darkness all over the world! And then, they say, things called Stars appeared, which robbed men of their souls and left them unreasoning brutes, so that they destroyed the civilization they themselves had built up. Of course they mix all this up with a lot of religio-mystic notions, but that\rquote s the central idea.\rdblquote\par
There was a short pause in which Sheerin drew a long breath. \ldblquote And now we come to the Theory of Universal Gravitation.\rdblquote  He pronounced the phrase so that the capital letters sounded--and at that point Aton turned from the window, snorted loudly, and stalked out of the room.\par
The two stared after him, and Theremon said, \ldblquote What\rquote s wrong?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Nothing in particular,\rdblquote  replied Sheerin. \ldblquote Two of the men were due several hours ago and haven\rquote t shown up yet. He\rquote s terrifically short-handed, of course, because all but the really essential men have gone to the Hideout.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You don\rquote t think the two deserted, do you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Who? Faro and Yimot? Of course not. Still, if they\rquote re not back within the hour, things would be a little sticky.\rdblquote  He got to his feet suddenly, and his eyes twinkled. \ldblquote Anyway, as long as Aton is gone--\rdblquote\par
Tiptoeing to the nearest window, he squatted, and from the low window box beneath withdrew a bottle of red liquid that gurgled suggestively when he shook it.\par
\ldblquote I thought Aton didn\rquote t know about this,\rdblquote  he remarked as he trotted back to the table. \ldblquote Here! We\rquote ve only got one glass so, as the guest, you can have it. I\rquote ll keep the bottle.\rdblquote\par
And he filled the tiny cup with judicious care. Theremon rose to protest, but Sheerin eyed him sternly.\par
\ldblquote Respect your elders, young man.\rdblquote\par
The newsman seated himself with a look of anguish on his face. \ldblquote Go ahead, then, you old villain.\rdblquote\par
The psychologist\rquote s Adam\rquote s apple wobbled as the bottle upended, and then, with a satisfied grunt and a smack of the lips, he began again. \ldblquote But what do you know about gravitation?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Nothing, except that it is a very recent development, not too well established, and that the math is so hard that only twelve men in Lagash are supposed to understand it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Tcha! Nonsense! Baloney! I can give you all the essential math in a sentence. The Law of Universal Gravitation states that there exists a cohesive force among all bodies of the universe, such that the amount of this force between any two given bodies is proportional to the product of their masses divided by the square of the distance between them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Is that all?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s enough! It took four hundred years to develop it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why that long? It sounded simple enough, the way you said it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Because great laws are not divined by flashes of inspiration, whatever you may think. It usually takes the combined work of a world full of scientists over a period of centuries. After Genovi 4 I discovered that Lagash rotated about the sun Alpha rather than vice versa--and that was four hundred years ago--astronomers have been working. The complex motions of the six suns were recorded and analyzed and unwoven. Theory after theory was advanced and checked and counterchecked and modified and abandoned and revived and converted to something else. It was a devil of a job.\rdblquote\par
Theremon nodded thoughtfully and held out his glass for more liquor.\par
Sheerin grudgingly allowed a few ruby drops to leave the bottle.\par
\ldblquote It was twenty years ago,\rdblquote  he continued after remoistening his own throat, \ldblquote that it was finally demonstrated that the Law of Universal Gravitation accounted exactly for the orbital motions of the six suns. It was a great triumph.\rdblquote\par
Sheerin stood up and walked to the window, still clutching his bottle. \ldblquote And now we\rquote re getting to the point. In the last decade, the motions of Lagash about Alpha were computed according to gravity, and it did not account for the orbit observed; not even when all perturbations due to the other suns were included. Either the law was invalid, or there was another, as yet unknown, factor involved.\rdblquote\par
Theremon joined Sheerin at the window and gazed out past the wooded slopes to where the spires of Saro City gleamed bloodily on the horizon. The newsman felt the tension of uncertainty grow within him as he cast a short glance at Beta. It glowered redly at zenith, dwarfed and evil.\par
\ldblquote Go ahead, sir,\rdblquote  he said softly.\par
Sheerin replied, \ldblquote Astronomers stumbled about for year, each proposed theory more untenable than the one before--until Aton had the inspiration of calling in the Cult. The head of the Cult, Sor 5, had access to certain data that simplified the problem considerably. Aton set to work on a new track.\par
\ldblquote What if there were another nonluminous planetary body such as Lagash? If there were, you know, it would shine only by reflected light, and if it were composed of bluish rock, as Lagash itself largely is, then, in the redness of the sky, the eternal blaze of the suns would make it invisible--drown it out completely.\rdblquote\par
Theremon whistled. \ldblquote What a screwy idea!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You think that\rquote s screwy? Listen to this: Suppose this body rotated about Lagash at such a distance and in such an orbit and had such a mass that its attention would exactly account for the deviations of Lagash\rquote s orbit from theory--do you know what would happen?\rdblquote\par
The columnist shook his head.\par
\ldblquote Well, sometimes this body would get in the way of a sun.\rdblquote  And Sheerin emptied what remained in the bottle at a draft.\par
\ldblquote And it does, I suppose,\rdblquote  said Theremon flatly.\par
\ldblquote Yes! But only one sun lies in its plane of revolution.\rdblquote  He jerked a thumb at the shrunken sun above. \ldblquote Beta! And it has been shown that the eclipse will occur only when the arrangement of the suns is such that Beta is alone in its hemisphere and at maximum distance, at which time the moon is invariably at minimum distance. The eclipse that results, with the moon seven times the apparent diameter of Beta, covers all of Lagash and lasts well over half a day, so that no spot on the planet escapes the effects. That eclipse comes once every two thousand and forty-nine years.\rdblquote\par
Theremon\rquote s face was drawn into an expressionless mask.\par
\ldblquote And that\rquote s my story?\rdblquote\par
The psychologist nodded. \ldblquote That\rquote s all of it. First the eclipse--which will start in three quarters of an hour--then universal Darkness and, maybe, these mysterious Stars--then madness, and end of the cycle.\rdblquote\par
He brooded. \ldblquote We had two months\rquote  leeway--we at the Observatory--and that wasn\rquote t enough time to persuade Lagash of the danger. Two centuries might not have been enough. But our records are at the Hideout, and today we photograph the eclipse. The next cycle will start off with the truth, and when the next eclipse comes, mankind will at last be ready for it. Come to think of it, that\rquote s part of your story too.\rdblquote\par
A thin wind ruffled the curtains at the window as Theremon opened it and leaned out. It played coldly with his hair as he stared at the crimson sunlight on his hand. Then he turned in sudden rebellion.\par
\ldblquote What is there in Darkness to drive me mad?\rdblquote\par
Sheerin smiled to himself as he spun the empty liquor bottle with abstracted motions of his hand. \ldblquote Have you ever experienced Darkness, young man?\rdblquote\par
The newsman leaned against the wall and considered. \ldblquote No. Can\rquote t say I have. But I know what it is. Just--uh--\rdblquote  He made vague motions with his fingers and then brightened. \ldblquote Just no light. Like in caves.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Have you ever been in a cave?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote In a cave! Of course not!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I thought not. I tried last week--just to see--but I got out in a hurry. I went in until the mouth of the cave was just visible as a blur of light, with black everywhere else. I never thought a person my weight could run that fast.\rdblquote\par
Theremon\rquote s lip curled. \ldblquote Well, if it comes to that, I guess I wouldn\rquote t have run if I had been there.\rdblquote\par
The psychologist studied the young man with an annoyed frown.\par
\ldblquote My, don\rquote t you talk big! I dare you to draw the curtain.\rdblquote\par
Theremon looked his surprise and said, \ldblquote What for? If we had four or five suns out there, we might want to cut the light down a bit for comfort, but now we haven\rquote t enough light as it is.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s the point. Just draw the curtain; then come here and sit down.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right.\rdblquote  Theremon reached for the tasseled string and jerked. The red curtain slid across the wide window, the brass rings hissing their way along the crossbar, and a dusk-red shadow clamped down on the room.\par
Theremon\rquote s footsteps sounded hollowly in the silence as he made his way to the table, and then they stopped halfway. \ldblquote I can\rquote t see you, sir,\rdblquote  he whispered.\par
\ldblquote Feel your way,\rdblquote  ordered Sheerin in a strained voice.\par
\ldblquote But I can\rquote t see you, sir.\rdblquote  The newsman was breathing harshly. \ldblquote I can\rquote t see anything.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What did you expect?\rdblquote  came the grim reply. \ldblquote Come here and sit down!\rdblquote\par
The footsteps sounded again, waveringly, approaching slowly. There was the sound of someone fumbling with a chair. Theremon\rquote s voice came thinly, \ldblquote Here I am. I feel ... uh ... all right.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You like it, do you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote N--no. It\rquote s pretty awful. The walls seem to be--\rdblquote  He paused. \ldblquote They seem to be closing in on me. I keep wanting to push them away. But I\rquote m not going mad! In fact, the feeling isn\rquote t as bad as it was.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right. Draw the curtain back again.\rdblquote\par
There were cautious footsteps through the dark, the rustle of Theremon\rquote s body against the curtain as he felt for the tassel, and then the triumphant roo-osh of the curtain slithering back. Red light flooded the room, and with a cry of joy Theremon looked up at the sun.\par
Sheerin wiped the moistness off his forehead with the back of a hand and said shakily, \ldblquote And that was just a dark room.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It can be stood,\rdblquote  said Theremon lightly.\par
\ldblquote Yes, a dark room can. But were you at the Jonglor Centennial Exposition two years ago?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, it so happens I never got around to it. Six thousand miles was just a bit too much to travel, even for the exposition.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, I was there. You remember hearing about the \lquote Tunnel of Mystery\rquote  that broke all records in the amusement area--for the first month or so, anyway?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes. Wasn\rquote t there some fuss about it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Very little. It was hushed up. You see, that Tunnel of Mystery was just a mile-long tunnel--with no lights. You got into a little open car and jolted along through Darkness for fifteen minutes. It was very popular--while it lasted.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Popular?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Certainly. There\rquote s a fascination in being frightened when it\rquote s part of a game. A baby is born with three instinctive fears: of loud noises, of falling, and of the absence of light. That\rquote s why it\rquote s considered so funny to jump at someone and shout \lquote Boo!\rquote  That\rquote s why it\rquote s such fun to ride a roller coaster. And that\rquote s why that Tunnel of Mystery started cleaning up. People came out of that Darkness shaking, breathless, half dead with fear, but they kept on paying to get in.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Wait a while, I remember now. Some people came out dead, didn\rquote t they? There were rumors of that after it shut down.\rdblquote\par
The psychologist snorted. \ldblquote Bah! Two or three died. That was nothing! They paid off the families of the dead ones and argued the Jonglor City Council into forgetting it. After all, they said, if people with weak hearts want to go through the tunnel, it was at their own risk--and besides, it wouldn\rquote t happen again. So they put a doctor in the front office and had every customer go through a physical examination before getting into the car. That actually boosted ticket sales.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, then?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But you see, there was something else. People sometimes came out in perfect order, except that they refused to go into buildings--any buildings; including palaces, mansions, apartment houses, tenements, cottages, huts, shacks, lean-tos, and tents.\rdblquote\par
Theremon looked shocked. \ldblquote You mean they refused to come in out of the open? Where\rquote d they sleep?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote In the open.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote They should have forced them inside.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh, they did, they did. Whereupon these people went into violent hysterics and did their best to bat their brains out against the nearest wall. Once you got them inside, you couldn\rquote t keep them there without a strait jacket or a heavy dose of tranquilizer.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote They must have been crazy.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Which is exactly what they were. One person out of every ten who went into that tunnel came out that way. They called in the psychologists, and we did the only thing possible. We closed down the exhibit.\rdblquote  He spread his hands.\par
\ldblquote What was the matter with these people?\rdblquote  asked Theremon finally.\par
\ldblquote Essentially the same thing that was the matter with you when you thought the walls of the room were crushing in on you in the dark. There is a psychological term for mankind\rquote s instinctive fear of the absence of light. We call it \lquote claustrophobia\rquote , because the lack of light is always tied up with enclosed places, so that fear of one is fear of the other. You see?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And those people of the tunnel?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Those people of the tunnel consisted of those unfortunates whose mentality did not quite possess the resiliency to overcome the claustrophobia that overtook them in the Darkness. Fifteen minutes without light is a long time; you only had two or three minutes, and I believe you were fairly upset.\par
\ldblquote The people of the tunnel had what is called a \lquote claustrophobic fixation\rquote . Their latent fear of Darkness and enclosed places had crystalized and become active, and, as far as we can tell, permanent. That\rquote s what fifteen minutes in the dark will do.\rdblquote\par
There was a long silence, and Theremon\rquote s forehead wrinkled slowly into a frown. \ldblquote I don\rquote t believe it\rquote s that bad.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You mean you don\rquote t want to believe,\rdblquote  snapped Sheerin. \ldblquote You\rquote re afraid to believe. Look out the window!\rdblquote\par
Theremon did so, and the psychologist continued without pausing. \ldblquote Imagine Darkness--everywhere. No light, as far as you can see. The houses, the trees, the fields, the earth, the sky--black! And Stars thrown in, for all I know--whatever they are. Can you conceive it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, I can,\rdblquote  declared Theremon truculently.\par
And Sheerin slammed his fist down upon the table in sudden passion.\par
\ldblquote You lie! You can\rquote t conceive that. Your brain wasn\rquote t built for the conception any more than it was built for the conception of infinity or of eternity. You can only talk about it. A fraction of the reality upsets you, and when the real thing comes, your brain is going to be presented with the phenomenon outside its limits of comprehension. You will go mad, completely and permanently! There is no question of it!\rdblquote\par
He added sadly, \ldblquote And another couple of millennia of painful struggle comes to nothing. Tomorrow there won\rquote t be a city standing unharmed in all Lagash.\rdblquote\par
Theremon recovered part of his mental equilibrium. \ldblquote That doesn\rquote t follow. I still don\rquote t see that I can go loony just because there isn\rquote t a sun in the sky--but even if I did, and everyone else did, how does that harm the cities? Are we going to blow them down?\rdblquote\par
But Sheerin was angry, too. \ldblquote If you were in Darkness, what would you want more than anything else; what would it be that every instinct would call for? Light, damn you, light!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And how would you get light?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t know,\rdblquote  said Theremon flatly.\par
\ldblquote What\rquote s the only way to get light, short of a sun?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How should I know?\rdblquote\par
They were standing face to face and nose to nose.\par
Sheerin said, \ldblquote You bum something, mister. Ever see a forest fire? Ever go camping and cook a stew over a wood fire? Heat isn\rquote t the only thing burning wood gives off, you know. It gives off light, and people know that. And when it\rquote s dark they want light, and they\rquote re going to get it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote So they bum wood?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote So they burn whatever they can get. They\rquote ve got to have light. They\rquote ve got to burn something, and wood isn\rquote t handy--so they\rquote ll burn whatever is nearest. They\rquote ll have their light--and every center of habitation goes up in flames!\rdblquote\par
Eyes held each other as though the whole matter were a personal affair of respective will powers, and then Theremon broke away wordlessly. His breathing was harsh and ragged, and he scarcely noted the sudden hubbub that came from the adjoining room behind the closed door.\par
Sheerin spoke, and it was with an effort that he made it sound matter-of-fact. \ldblquote I think I heard Yimot\rquote s voice. He and Faro are probably back. Let\rquote s go in and see what kept them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Might as well!\rdblquote  muttered Theremon. He drew a long breath and seemed to shake himself. The tension was broken.\par
The room was in an uproar, with members of the staff clustering about two young men who were removing outer garments even as they parried the miscellany of questions being thrown at them.\par
Aton hustled through the crowd and faced the newcomers angrily. \ldblquote Do you realize that it\rquote s less than half an hour before deadline? Where have you two been?\rdblquote\par
Faro 24 seated himself and rubbed his hands. His cheeks were red with the outdoor chill. \ldblquote Yimot and I have just finished carrying through a little crazy experiment of our own. We\rquote ve been trying to see if we couldn\rquote t construct an arrangement by which we could simulate the appearance of Darkness and Stars so as to get an advance notion as to how it looked.\rdblquote\par
There was a confused murmur from the listeners, and a sudden look of interest entered Aton\rquote s eyes. \ldblquote There wasn\rquote t anything said of this before. How did you go about it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  said Faro, \ldblquote the idea came to Yimot and myself long ago, and we\rquote ve been working it out in our spare time. Yimot knew of a low one-story house down in the city with a domed roof--it had once been used as a museum, I think. Anyway, we bought it--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Where did you get the money?\rdblquote  interrupted Aton peremptorily.\par
\ldblquote Our bank accounts,\rdblquote  grunted Yimot 70. \ldblquote It cost two thousand credits.\rdblquote\par
Then, defensively, \ldblquote Well, what of it? Tomorrow, two thousand credits will be two thousand pieces of paper. That\rquote s all.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Sure.\rdblquote  agreed Faro. \ldblquote We bought the place and rigged it up with black velvet from top to bottom so as to get as perfect a Darkness as possible. Then we punched tiny holes in the ceiling and through the roof and covered them with little metal caps, all of which could be shoved aside simultaneously at the close of a switch. At least we didn\rquote t do that part ourselves; we got a carpenter and an electrician and some others--money didn\rquote t count. The point was that we could get the light to shine through those holes in the roof, so that we could get a starlike effect.\rdblquote\par
Not a breath was drawn during the pause that followed. Aton said stiffly, \ldblquote You had no right to make a private--\rdblquote\par
Faro seemed abashed. \ldblquote I know, sir--but frankly, Yimot and I thought the experiment was a little dangerous. If the effect really worked, we half expected to go mad--from what Sheerin says about all this, we thought that would be rather likely. We wanted to take the risk ourselves. Of course if we found we could retain sanity, it occurred to us that we might develop immunity to the real thing, and then expose the rest of you the same way. But things didn\rquote t work out at all--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why, what happened?\rdblquote\par
It was Yimot who answered. \ldblquote We shut ourselves in and allowed our eyes to get accustomed to the dark. It\rquote s an extremely creepy feeling because the total Darkness makes you feel as if the walls and ceiling are crushing in on you. But we got over that and pulled the switch. The caps fell away and the roof glittered all over with little dots of light--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well--nothing. That was the whacky part of it. Nothing happened. It was just a roof with holes in it, and that\rquote s just what it looked like. We tried it over and over again--that\rquote s what kept us so late--but there just isn\rquote t any effect at all.\rdblquote\par
There followed a shocked silence, and all eyes turned to Sheerin, who sat motionless, mouth open.\par
Theremon was the first to speak. \ldblquote You know what this does to this whole theory you\rquote ve built up, Sheerin, don\rquote t you?\rdblquote  He was grinning with relief.\par
But Sheerin raised his hand. \ldblquote Now wait a while. Just let me think this through.\rdblquote  And then he snapped his fingers, and when he lifted his head there was neither surprise nor uncertainty in his eyes. \ldblquote Of course--\rdblquote\par
He never finished. From somewhere up above there sounded a sharp clang, and Beenay, starting to his feet, dashed up the stairs with a \ldblquote What the devil!\rdblquote\par
The rest followed after.\par
Things happened quickly. Once up in the dome, Beenay cast one horrified glance at the shattered photographic plates and at the man bending over them; and then hurled himself fiercely at the intruder, getting a death grip on his throat. There was a wild threshing, and as others of the staff joined in, the stranger was swallowed up and smothered under the weight of half a dozen angry men.\par
Aton came up last, breathing heavily. \ldblquote Let him up!\rdblquote\par
There was a reluctant unscrambling and the stranger, panting harshly, with his clothes torn and his forehead bruised, was hauled to his feet. He had a short yellow beard curled elaborately in the style affected by the Cultists. Beenay shifted his hold to a collar grip and shook the man savagely. \ldblquote All right, rat, what\rquote s the idea? These plates--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I wasn\rquote t after them,\rdblquote  retorted the Cultist coldly. \ldblquote That was an accident.\rdblquote\par
Beenay followed his glowering stare and snarled, \ldblquote I see. You were after the cameras themselves. The accident with the plates was a stroke of luck for you, then. If you had touched Snapping Bertha or any of the others, you would have died by slow torture. As it is--\rdblquote  He drew his fist back.\par
Aton grabbed his sleeve. \ldblquote Stop that! Let him go!\rdblquote\par
The young technician wavered, and his arm dropped reluctantly. Aton pushed him aside and confronted the Cultist. \ldblquote You\rquote re Latimer, aren\rquote t you?\rdblquote\par
The Cultist bowed stiffly and indicated the symbol upon his hip. I am Latimer 25, adjutant of the third class to his serenity, Sor 5.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And\rdblquote --Aton\rquote s white eyebrows lifted--\ldblquote you were with his serenity when he visited me last week, weren\rquote t you?\rdblquote\par
Latimer bowed a second time.\par
\ldblquote Now, then, what do you want?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Nothing that you would give me of your own free will.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Sor 5 sent you, I suppose--or is this your own idea?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I won\rquote t answer that question.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Will there be any further visitors?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I won\rquote t answer that, either.\rdblquote\par
Aton glanced at his timepiece and scowled. \ldblquote Now, man, what is it your master wants of me? I have fulfilled my end of the bargain.\rdblquote\par
Latimer smiled faintly, but said nothing.\par
\ldblquote I asked him,\rdblquote  continued Aton angrily, \ldblquote for data only the Cult could supply, and it was given to me. For that, thank you. In return I promised to prove the essential truth of the creed of the Cult.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote There was no need to prove that,\rdblquote  came the proud retort. It stands proven by the Book of Revelations.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote For the handful that constitute the Cult, yes. Don\rquote t pretend to mistake my meaning. I offered to present scientific backing for your beliefs. And I did!\rdblquote\par
The Cultist\rquote s eyes narrowed bitterly. \ldblquote Yes, you did--with a fox\rquote s subtlety, for your pretended explanation backed our beliefs, and at the same time removed all necessity for them. You made of the Darkness and of the Stars a natural phenomenon and removed all its real significance. That was blasphemy.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If so, the fault isn\rquote t mine. The facts exist. What can I do but state them?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Your \lquote facts\rquote  are a fraud and a delusion.\rdblquote\par
Aton stamped angrily. \ldblquote How do you know?\rdblquote\par
And the answer came with the certainty of absolute faith. \ldblquote I know!\rdblquote\par
The director purpled and Beenay whispered urgently. Aton waved him silent. \ldblquote And what does Sor 5 want us to do? He still thinks, I suppose, that in trying to warn the world to take measures against the menace of madness, we are placing innumerable souls in jeopardy. We aren\rquote t succeeding, if that means anything to him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The attempt itself has done harm enough, and your vicious effort to gain information by means of your devilish instruments must be stopped. We obey the will of the Stars, and I only regret that my clumsiness prevented me from wrecking your infernal devices.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It wouldn\rquote t have done you too much good,\rdblquote  returned Aton. \ldblquote All our data, except for the direct evidence we intend collecting right now, is already safely cached and well beyond possibility of harm.\rdblquote  He smiled grimly. \ldblquote But that does not affect your present status as an attempted burglar and criminal.\rdblquote\par
He turned to the men behind him. \ldblquote Someone call the police at Saro City.\rdblquote\par
There was a cry of distaste from Sheerin. \ldblquote Damn it, Aton, what\rquote s wrong with you? There\rquote s no time for that. Here\rdblquote --he hustled his way forward--\ldblquote let me handle this.\rdblquote\par
Aton stared down his nose at the psychologist. \ldblquote This is not the time for your monkeyshines, Sheerin. Will you please let me handle this my own way? Right now you are a complete outsider here, and don\rquote t forget it.\rdblquote\par
Sheerin\rquote s mouth twisted eloquently. \ldblquote Now why should we go to the impossible trouble of calling the police--with Beta\rquote s eclipse a matter of minutes from now--when this young man here is perfectly willing to pledge his word of honor to remain and cause no trouble whatsoever?\rdblquote\par
The Cultist answered promptly, \ldblquote I will do no such thing. You\rquote re free to do what you want, but it\rquote s only fair to warn you that just as soon as I get my chance I\rquote m going to finish what I came out here to do. If it\rquote s my word of honor you\rquote re relying on, you\rquote d better call the police.\rdblquote\par
Sheerin smiled in a friendly fashion. \ldblquote You\rquote re a determined cuss, aren\rquote t you? Well, I\rquote ll explain something. Do you see that young man at the window? He\rquote s a strong, husky fellow, quite handy with his fists, and he\rquote s an outsider besides. Once the eclipse starts there will be nothing for him to do except keep an eye on you. Besides him, there will be myself--a little too stout for active fisticuffs, but still able to help.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, what of it?\rdblquote  demanded Latimer frozenly.\par
\ldblquote Listen and I\rquote ll tell you,\rdblquote  was the reply. \ldblquote Just as soon as the eclipse starts, we\rquote re going to take you, Theremon and I, and deposit you in a little closet with one door, to which is attached one giant lock and no windows. You will remain there for the duration.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And afterward,\rdblquote  breathed Latimer fiercely, \ldblquote there\rquote ll be no one to let me out. I know as well as you do what the coming of the Stars means--I know it far better than you. With all your minds gone, you are not likely to free me. Suffocation or slow starvation, is it? About what I might have expected from a group of scientists. But I don\rquote t give my word. It\rquote s a matter of principle, and I won\rquote t discuss it further.\rdblquote\par
Aton seemed perturbed. His faded eyes were troubled.\par
\ldblquote Really, Sheerin, locking him--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Please!\rdblquote  Sheerin motioned him impatiently to silence. \ldblquote I don\rquote t think for a moment things will go that far. Latimer has just tried a clever little bluff, but I\rquote m not a psychologist just because I like the sound of the word.\rdblquote  He grinned at the Cultist. \ldblquote Come now, you don\rquote t really think I\rquote m trying anything as crude as slow starvation. My dear Latimer, if I lock you in the closet, you are not going to see the Darkness, and you are not going to see the Stars. It does not take much knowledge of the fundamental creed of the Cult to realize that for you to be hidden from the Stars when they appear means the loss of your immortal soul. Now, I believe you to be an honorable man. I\rquote ll accept your word of honor to make no further effort to disrupt proceedings, if you\rquote ll offer it.\rdblquote\par
A vein throbbed in Latimer\rquote s temple, and he seemed to shrink within himself as he said thickly, \ldblquote You have it!\rdblquote  And then he added with swift fury. \ldblquote But it is my consolation that you will all be damned for your deeds of today.\rdblquote  He turned on his heel and stalked to the high three-legged stool by the door.\par
Sheerin nodded to the columnist. \ldblquote Take a seat next to him, Theremon-- just as a formality. Hey, Theremon!\rdblquote\par
But the newspaperman didn\rquote t move. He had gone pale to the lips. \ldblquote Look at that!\rdblquote  The finger he pointed toward the sky shook, and his voice was dry and cracked.\par
There was one simultaneous gasp as every eye followed the pointing finger and, for one breathless moment, stared frozenly.\par
Beta was chipped on one side!\par
The tiny bit of encroaching blackness was perhaps the width of a fingernail, but to the staring watchers it magnified itself into the crack of doom.\par
Only for a moment they watched, and after that there was a shrieking confusion that was even shorter of duration and which gave way to an orderly scurry of activity--each man at his prescribed job. At the crucial moment there was no time for emotion. The men were merely scientists with work to do. Even Aton had melted away.\par
Sheerin said prosaically. \ldblquote First contact must have been made fifteen minutes ago. A little early, but pretty good considering the uncertainties involved in the calculation.\rdblquote  He looked about him and then tiptoed to Theremon, who still remained staring out the window, and dragged him away gently.\par
\ldblquote Aton is furious,\rdblquote  he whispered, \ldblquote so stay away. He missed first contact on account of this fuss with Latimer, and if you get in his way he\rquote ll have you thrown out the window.\rdblquote\par
Theremon nodded shortly and sat down. Sheerin stared in surprise at him.\par
\ldblquote The devil, man,\rdblquote  he exclaimed, \ldblquote you\rquote re shaking.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Eh?\rdblquote  Theremon licked dry lips and then tried to smile. \ldblquote I don\rquote t feel very well, and that\rquote s a fact.\rdblquote\par
The psychologist\rquote s eyes hardened. \ldblquote You\rquote re not losing your nerve?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No!\rdblquote  cried Theremon in a flash of indignation. \ldblquote Give me a chance, will you? I haven\rquote t really believed this rigmarole--not way down beneath, anyway--till just this minute. Give me a chance to get used to the idea. You\rquote ve been preparing yourself for two months or more.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You\rquote re right, at that,\rdblquote  replied Sheerin thoughtfully. \ldblquote Listen! Have you got a family--parents, wife, children?\rdblquote\par
Theremon shook his head. \ldblquote You mean the Hideout, I suppose. No, you don\rquote t have to worry about that. I have a sister, but she\rquote s two thousand miles away. I don\rquote t even know her exact address.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, then, what about yourself? You\rquote ve got time to get there, and they\rquote re one short anyway, since I left. After all, you\rquote re not needed here, and you\rquote d make a darned fine addition--\rdblquote\par
Theremon looked at the other wearily. \ldblquote You think I\rquote m scared stiff, don\rquote t you? Well, get this, mister. I\rquote m a newspaperman and I\rquote ve been assigned to cover a story. I intend covering it.\rdblquote\par
There was a faint smile on the psychologist\rquote s face. \ldblquote I see. Professional honor, is that it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You might call it that. But, man. I\rquote d give my right arm for another bottle of that sockeroo juice even half the size of the one you bogged. If ever a fellow needed a drink, I do.\rdblquote\par
He broke off. Sheerin was nudging him violently. \ldblquote Do you hear that? Listen!\rdblquote\par
Theremon followed the motion of the other\rquote s chin and stared at the Cultist, who, oblivious to all about him, faced the window, a look of wild elation on his face, droning to himself the while in singsong fashion.\par
\ldblquote What\rquote s he saying?\rdblquote  whispered the columnist.\par
\ldblquote He\rquote s quoting Book of Revelations, fifth chapter,\rdblquote  replied Sheerin.\par
Then, urgently, \ldblquote Keep quiet and listen, I tell you.\rdblquote\par
The Cultist\rquote s voice had risen in a sudden increase of fervor:\par
\ldblquote  \lquote And it came to pass that in those days the Sun, Beta, held lone vigil in the sky for ever longer periods as the revolutions passed; until such time as for full half a revolution, it alone, shrunken and cold, shone down upon Lagash.\par
\ldblquote  \lquote And men did assemble in the public squares and in the highways, there to debate and to marvel at the sight, for a strange depression had seized them. Their minds were troubled and their speech confused, for the souls of men awaited the coming of the Stars.\par
\ldblquote  \lquote And in the city of Trigon, at high noon, Vendret 2 came forth and said unto the men of Trigon, \ldblquote Lo, ye sinners! Though ye scorn the ways of righteousness, yet will the time of reckoning come. Even now the Cave approaches to swallow Lagash; yea, and all it contains.\par
\ldblquote  \lquote And even as he spoke the lip of the Cave of Darkness passed the edge of Beta so that to all Lagash it was hidden from sight. Loud were the cries of men as it vanished, and great the fear of soul that fell upon them.\par
\ldblquote  \lquote It came to pass that the Darkness of the Cave fell upon Lagash, and there was no light on all the surface of Lagash. Men were even as blinded, nor could one man see his neighbor, though he felt his breath upon his face.\par
\ldblquote  \lquote And in this blackness there appeared the Stars, in countless numbers, and to the strains of music of such beauty that the very leaves of the trees cried out in wonder.\par
\ldblquote  \lquote And in that moment the souls of men departed from them, and their abandoned bodies became even as beasts; yea, even as brutes of the wild; so that through the blackened streets of the cities of Lagash they prowled with wild cries.\par
\ldblquote  \lquote From the Stars there then reached down the Heavenly Flame, and where it touched, the cities of Lagash flamed to utter destruction, so that of man and of the works of man nought remained.\par
\ldblquote Even then--\rquote  \rdblquote\par
There was a subtle change in Latimer\rquote s tone. His eyes had not shifted, but somehow he had become aware of the absorbed attention of the other two. Easily, without pausing for breath, the timbre of his voice shifted and the syllables became more liquid.\par
Theremon, caught by surprise, stared. The words seemed on the border of familiarity. There was an elusive shift in the accent, a tiny change in the vowel stress; nothing more--yet Latimer had become thoroughly unintelligible.\par
Sheerin smiled slyly. \ldblquote He shifted to some old-cycle tongue, probably their traditional second cycle. That was the language in which the Book of Revelations was originally written, you know.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It doesn\rquote t matter; I\rquote ve heard enough.\rdblquote  Theremon shoved his chair back and brushed his hair back with hands that no longer shook. \ldblquote I feel much better now.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You do?\rdblquote  Sheerin seemed mildly surprised.\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ll say I do. I had a bad case of jitters just a while back. Listening to you and your gravitation and seeing that eclipse start almost finished me. But this\rdblquote --he jerked a contemptuous thumb at the yellow-bearded Cultist--\ldblquote this is the sort of thing my nurse used to tell me. I\rquote ve been laughing at that sort of thing all my life. I\rquote m not going to let it scare me now.\rdblquote\par
He drew a deep breath and said with a hectic gaiety, \ldblquote But if I expect to keep on the good side of myself. I\rquote m going to turn my chair away from the window.\rdblquote\par
Sheerin said, \ldblquote Yes, but you\rquote d better talk lower. Aton just lifted his head out of that box he\rquote s got it stuck into and gave you a look that should have killed you.\rdblquote\par
Theremon made a mouth. \ldblquote I forgot about the old fellow.\rdblquote  With elaborate care he turned the chair from the window, cast one distasteful look over his shoulder, and said, \ldblquote It has occurred to me that there must be considerable immunity against this Star madness.\rdblquote\par
The psychologist did not answer immediately. Beta was past its zenith now, and the square of bloody sunlight that outlined the window upon the floor had lifted into Sheerin\rquote s lap. He stared at its dusky color thoughtfully and then bent and squinted into the sun itself.\par
The chip in its side had grown to a black encroachment that covered a third of Beta. He shuddered, and when he straightened once more his florid cheeks did not contain quite as much color as they had had previously.\par
With a smile that was almost apologetic, he reversed his chair also. \ldblquote There are probably two million people in Saro City that are all trying to join the Cult at once in one gigantic revival.\rdblquote  Then, ironically. \ldblquote The Cult is in for an hour of unexampled prosperity. I trust they\rquote ll make the most of it. Now, what was it you said?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Just this. How did the Cultists manage to keep the Book of Revelations going from cycle to cycle, and how on Lagash did it get written in the first place? There must have been some sort of immunity, for if everyone had gone mad, who would be left to write the book?\rdblquote\par
Sheerin stared at his questioner ruefully. \ldblquote Well, now, young man, there isn\rquote t any eyewitness answer to that, but we\rquote ve got a few damned good notions as to what happened. You see. there are three kinds of people who might remain relatively unaffected. First, the very few who don\rquote t see the Stars at all: the seriously retarded or those who drink themselves into a stupor at the beginning of the eclipse and remain so to the end. We leave them out-- because they aren\rquote t really witnesses.\par
\ldblquote Then there are children below six, to whom the world as a whole is too new and strange for them to be too frightened at Stars and Darkness. They would be just another item in an already surprising world. You see that, don\rquote t you?\rdblquote\par
The other nodded doubtfully. \ldblquote I suppose so.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Lastly, there are those whose minds are too coarsely grained to be entirely toppled. The very insensitive would be scarcely affected--oh, such people as some of our older, work-broken peasants. Well, the children would have fugitive memories, and that, combined with the confused, incoherent babblings of the half-mad morons, formed the basis for the Book of Revelations.\par
\ldblquote Naturally, the book was based, in the first place, on the testimony of those least qualified to serve as historians; that is, children and morons; and was probably edited and re-edited through the cycles.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Do you suppose,\rdblquote  broke in Theremon, \ldblquote that they carried the book through the cycles the way we\rquote re planning on handing on the secret of gravitation?\rdblquote\par
Sheerin shrugged. \ldblquote Perhaps, but their exact method is unimportant. They do it, somehow. The point I was getting at was that the book can\rquote t help but be a mass of distortion, even if it is based on fact. For instance, do you remember the experiment with the holes in the roof that Faro and Yimot tried--the one that didn\rquote t work?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You know why it didn\rquote t w--\rdblquote  He stopped and rose in alarm, for Aton was approaching, his face a twisted mask of consternation. \ldblquote What\rquote s happened?\rdblquote\par
Aton drew him aside and Sheerin could feel the fingers on his elbow twitching.\par
\ldblquote Not so loud!\rdblquote  Aton\rquote s voice was low and tortured. \ldblquote I\rquote ve just gotten word from the Hideout on the private line.\rdblquote\par
Sheerin broke in anxiously. \ldblquote They are in trouble?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not they.\rdblquote  Aton stressed the pronoun significantly. \ldblquote They sealed themselves off just a while ago, and they\rquote re going to stay buried till day after tomorrow. They\rquote re safe. But the city. Sheerin--it\rquote s a shambles. You have no idea--\rdblquote  He was having difficulty in speaking.\par
\ldblquote Well?\rdblquote  snapped Sheerin impatiently. \ldblquote What of it? It will get worse. What are you shaking about?\rdblquote  Then, suspiciously, \ldblquote How do you feel?\rdblquote\par
Aton\rquote s eyes sparked angrily at the insinuation, and then faded to anxiety once more. \ldblquote You don\rquote t understand. The Cultists are active. They\rquote re rousing the people to storm the Observatory--promising them immediate entrance into grace, promising them salvation, promising them anything. What are we to do, Sheerin?\rdblquote\par
Sheerin\rquote s head bent, and he stared in long abstraction at his toes. He tapped his chin with one knuckle, then looked up and said crisply, \ldblquote Do? What is there to do? Nothing at all. Do the men know of this?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, of course not!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good! Keep it that way. How long till totality?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not quite an hour.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote There\rquote s nothing to do but gamble. It will take time to organize any really formidable mob, and it will take more time to get them out here. We\rquote re a good five miles from the city--\rdblquote\par
He glared out the window, down the slopes to where the farmed patches gave way to clumps of white houses in the suburbs; down to where the metropolis itself was a blur on the horizon--a mist in the waning blaze of Beta.\par
He repeated without turning. \ldblquote It will take time. Keep on working and pray that totality comes first.\rdblquote\par
Beta was cut in half, the line of division pushing a slight concavity into the still-bright portion of the Sun. It was like a gigantic eyelid shutting slantwise over the light of a world.\par
The faint clatter of the room in which he stood faded into oblivion, and he sensed only the thick silence of the fields outside. The very insects seemed frightened mute. And things were dim.\par
He jumped at the voice in his ear. Theremon said. \ldblquote Is something wrong?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Eh? Er--no. Get back to the chair. We\rquote re in the way.\rdblquote\par
They slipped back to their corner, but the psychologist did not speak for a time. He lifted a finger and loosened his collar. He twisted his neck back and forth but found no relief. He looked up suddenly.\par
\ldblquote Are you having any difficulty in breathing?\rdblquote\par
The newspaperman opened his eyes wide and drew two or three long breaths. \ldblquote No. Why?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I looked out the window too long, I suppose. The dimness got me. Difficulty in breathing is one of the first symptoms of a claustrophobic attack.\rdblquote\par
Theremon drew another long breath. \ldblquote Well, it hasn\rquote t got me yet. Say, here\rquote s another of the fellows.\rdblquote\par
Beenay had interposed his bulk between the light and the pair in the corner, and Sheerin squinted up at him anxiously. \ldblquote Hello, Beenay.\rdblquote\par
The astronomer shifted his weight to the other foot and smiled feebly. \ldblquote You won\rquote t mind if I sit down awhile and join in the talk? My cameras are set, and there\rquote s nothing to do till totality.\rdblquote  He paused and eyed the Cultist, who fifteen minutes earlier had drawn a small, skin-bound book from his sleeve and had been poring intently over it ever since.\par
\ldblquote That rat hasn\rquote t been making trouble, has he?\rdblquote\par
Sheerin shook his head. His shoulders were thrown back and he frowned his concentration as he forced himself to breathe regularly. He said, \ldblquote Have you had any trouble breathing, Beenay?\rdblquote\par
Beenay sniffed the air in his turn. \ldblquote It doesn\rquote t seem stuffy to me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote A touch of claustrophobia,\rdblquote  explained Sheerin apologetically.\par
\ldblquote Ohhh! It worked itself differently with me. I get the impression that my eyes are going back on me. Things seem to blur and--well, nothing is clear. And it\rquote s cold, too.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh, it\rquote s cold, all right. That\rquote s no illusion.\rdblquote  Theremon grimaced. \ldblquote My toes feel as if I\rquote ve been shipping them cross-country in a refrigerating car.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What we need,\rdblquote  put in Sheerin, \ldblquote is to keep our minds busy with extraneous affairs. I was telling you a while ago, Theremon, why Faro\rquote s experiments with the holes in the roof came to nothing.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You were just beginning,\rdblquote  replied Theremon. He encircled a knee with both arms and nuzzled his chin against it.\par
\ldblquote Well, as I started to say, they were misled by taking the Book of Revelations literally. There probably wasn\rquote t any sense in attaching any physical significance to the Stars. It might be, you know, that in the presence of total Darkness, the mind finds it absolutely necessary to create light. This illusion of light might be all the Stars there really are.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote In other words,\rdblquote  interposed Theremon, \ldblquote you mean the Stars are the results of the madness and not one of the causes. Then, what good will Beenay\rquote s photographs be?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote To prove that it is an illusion, maybe; or to prove the opposite; for all I know. Then again--\rdblquote\par
But Beenay had drawn his chair closer, and there was an expression of sudden enthusiasm on his face. \ldblquote Say, I\rquote m glad you two got onto this subject.\rdblquote  His eyes narrowed and he lifted one finger. \ldblquote I\rquote ve been thinking about these Stars and I\rquote ve got a really cute notion. Of course it\rquote s strictly ocean foam, and I\rquote m not trying to advance it seriously, but I think it\rquote s interesting. Do you want to hear it?\rdblquote\par
He seemed half reluctant, but Sheerin leaned back and said, \ldblquote Go ahead! I\rquote m listening.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, then, supposing there were other suns in the universe.\rdblquote  He broke off a little bashfully. \ldblquote I mean suns that are so far away that they\rquote re too dim to see. It sounds as if I\rquote ve been reading some of that fantastic fiction, I suppose.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not necessarily. Still, isn\rquote t that possibility eliminated by the fact that, according to the Law of Gravitation, they would make themselves evident by their attractive forces?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not if they were far enough off,\rdblquote  rejoined Beenay, \ldblquote really far off-- maybe as much as four light years, or even more. We\rquote d never be able to detect perturbations then, because they\rquote d be too small. Say that there were a lot of suns that far off; a dozen or two, maybe.\rdblquote\par
Theremon whistled melodiously. \ldblquote What an idea for a good Sunday supplement article. Two dozen suns in a universe eight light years across. Wow! That would shrink our world into insignificance. The readers would eat it up.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Only an idea,\rdblquote  said Beenay with a grin, \ldblquote but you see the point. During an eclipse, these dozen suns would become visible because there\rquote d be no real sunlight to drown them out. Since they\rquote re so far off, they\rquote d appear small, like so many little marbles. Of course the Cultists talk of millions of Stars, but that\rquote s probably exaggeration. There just isn\rquote t any place in the universe you could put a million suns--unless they touch one another.\rdblquote\par
Sheerin had listened with gradually increasing interest. \ldblquote You\rquote ve hit something there, Beenay. And exaggeration is just exactly what would happen. Our minds, as you probably know, can\rquote t grasp directly any number higher than five; above that there is only the concept of \lquote many\rquote . A dozen would become a million just like that. A damn good idea!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And I\rquote ve got another cute little notion,\rdblquote  Beenay said. \ldblquote Have you ever thought what a simple problem gravitation would be if only you had a sufficiently simple system? Supposing you had a universe in which there was a planet with only one sun. The planet would travel in a perfect ellipse and the exact nature of the gravitational force would be so evident it could be accepted as an axiom. Astronomers on such a world would start off with gravity probably before they even invented the telescope. Naked-eye observation would be enough.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But would such a system be dynamically stable?\rdblquote  questioned Sheerin doubtfully.\par
\ldblquote Sure! They call it the \lquote one-and-one\rquote  case. It\rquote s been worked out mathematically, but it\rquote s the philosophical implications that interest me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s nice to think about,\rdblquote  admitted Sheerin, \ldblquote as a pretty abstraction like a perfect gas, or absolute zero.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course,\rdblquote  continued Beenay, \ldblquote there\rquote s the catch that life would be impossible on such a planet. It wouldn\rquote t get enough heat and light, and if it rotated there would be total Darkness half of each day. You couldn\rquote t expect life--which is fundamentally dependent upon light--to develop under those conditions. Besides--\rdblquote\par
Sheerin\rquote s chair went over backward as he sprang to his feet in a rude interruption. \ldblquote Aton\rquote s brought out the lights.\rdblquote\par
Beenay said, \ldblquote Huh,\rdblquote  turned to stare, and then grinned halfway around his head in open relief.\par
There were half a dozen foot-long, inch-thick rods cradled in Aton\rquote s arms. He glared over them at the assembled staff members.\par
\ldblquote Get back to work, all of you. Sheerin, come here and help me!\rdblquote\par
Sheerin trotted to the older man\rquote s side and, one by one, in utter silence, the two adjusted the rods in makeshift metal holders suspended from the walls.\par
With the air of one carrying through the most sacred item of a religious ritual, Sheerin scraped a large, clumsy match into spluttering life and passed it to Aton, who carried the flame to the upper end of one of the rods.\par
It hesitated there awhile, playing futilely about the tip, until a sudden, crackling flare cast Aton\rquote s lined face into yellow highlights. He withdrew the match and a spontaneous cheer rattled the window.\par
The rod was topped by six inches of wavering flame! Methodically, the other rods were lighted, until six independent fires turned the rear of the room yellow.\par
The light was dim, dimmer even than the tenuous sunlight. The flames reeled crazily, giving birth to drunken, swaying shadows. The torches smoked devilishly and smelled like a bad day in the kitchen. But they emitted yellow light.\par
There was something about yellow light, after four hours of somber, dimming Beta. Even Latimer had lifted his eyes from his book and stared in wonder.\par
Sheerin warmed his hands at the nearest, regardless of the soot that gathered upon them in a fine, gray powder, and muttered ecstatically to himself. \ldblquote Beautiful! Beautiful! I never realized before what a wonderful color yellow is.\rdblquote\par
But Theremon regarded the torches suspiciously. He wrinkled his nose at the rancid odor and said, \ldblquote What are those things?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Wood,\rdblquote  said Sheerin shortly.\par
\ldblquote Oh, no, they\rquote re not. They aren\rquote t burning. The top inch is charred and the flame just keeps shooting up out of nothing.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s the beauty of it. This is a really efficient artificial-light mechanism. We made a few hundred of them, but most went to the Hideout, of course. You see\rdblquote --he turned and wiped his blackened hands upon his handkerchief--\ldblquote you take the pithy core of coarse water reeds, dry them thoroughly, and soak them in animal grease. Then you set fire to it and the grease burns, little by little. These torches will burn for almost half an hour without stopping. Ingenious, isn\rquote t it? It was developed by one of our own young men at Saro University.\rdblquote\par
After the momentary sensation, the dome had quieted. Latimer had carried his chair directly beneath a torch and continued reading, lips moving in the monotonous recital of invocations to the Stars. Beenay had drifted away to his cameras once more, and Theremon seized the opportunity to add to his notes on the article he was going to write for the Saro City Chronicle the next day--a procedure he had been following for the last two hours in a perfectly methodical, perfectly conscientious and, as he was well aware, perfectly meaningless fashion. But, as the gleam of amusement in Sheerin\rquote s eyes indicated, careful note-taking occupied his mind with something other than the fact that the sky was gradually turning a horrible deep purple-red, as if it were one gigantic, freshly peeled beet; and so it fulfilled its purpose.\par
The air grew, somehow, denser. Dusk, like a palpable entity, entered the room, and the dancing circle of yellow light about the torches etched itself into ever-sharper distinction against the gathering grayness beyond. There was the odor of smoke and the presence of little chuckling sounds that the torches made as they burned; the soft pad of one of the men circling the table at which he worked, on hesitant tiptoes; the occasional indrawn breath of someone trying to retain composure in a world that was retreating into the shadow.\par
It was Theremon who first heard the extraneous noise. It was a vague, unorganized impression of sound that would have gone unnoticed but for the dead silence that prevailed within the dome.\par
The newsman sat upright and replaced his notebook. He held his breath and listened; then, with considerable reluctance, threaded his way between the solarscope and one of Beenay\rquote s cameras and stood before the window.\par
The silence ripped to fragments at his startled shout: \ldblquote Sheerin!\rdblquote\par
Work stopped! The psychologist was at his side in a moment. Aton joined him. Even Yimot 70, high in his little lean-back seat at the eyepiece of the gigantic solarscope, paused and looked downward.\par
Outside, Beta was a mere smoldering splinter, taking one last desperate look at Lagash. The eastern horizon, in the direction of the city, was lost in Darkness, and the road from Saro to the Observatory was a dull-red line bordered on both sides by wooded tracts, the trees of which had somehow lost individuality and merged into a continuous shadowy mass.\par
But it was the highway itself that held attention, for along it there surged another, and infinitely menacing, shadowy mass.\par
Aton cried in a cracked voice, \ldblquote The madmen from the city! They\rquote ve come!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How long to totality?\rdblquote  demanded Sheerin.\par
\ldblquote Fifteen minutes, but ... but they\rquote ll be here in five.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Never mind, keep the men working. We\rquote ll hold them off. This place is built like a fortress. Aton, keep an eye on our young Cultist just for luck. Theremon, come with me.\rdblquote\par
Sheerin was out the door, and Theremon was at his heels. The stairs stretched below them in tight, circular sweeps about the central shaft, fading into a dank and dreary grayness.\par
The first momentum of their rush had carried them fifty feet down, so that the dim, flickering yellow from the open door of the dome had disappeared and both above and below the same dusky shadow crushed in upon them.\par
Sheerin paused, and his pudgy hand clutched at his chest. His eyes bulged and his voice was a dry cough. \ldblquote I can\rquote t ... breathe ... Go down ... yourself. Close all doors--\rdblquote\par
Theremon took a few downward steps, then turned.\par
\ldblquote Wait! Can you hold out a minute?\rdblquote  He was panting himself. The air passed in and out his lungs like so much molasses, and there was a little germ of screeching panic in his mind at the thought of making his way into the mysterious Darkness below by himself.\par
Theremon, after all, was afraid of the dark!\par
\ldblquote Stay here,\rdblquote  he said. I\rquote ll be back in a second.\rdblquote  He dashed upward two steps at a time, heart pounding--not altogether from the exertion--tumbled into the dome and snatched a torch from its holder. It was foul-smelling, and the smoke smarted his eyes almost blind, but he clutched that torch as if he wanted to kiss it for joy, and its flame streamed backward as he hurtled down the stairs again.\par
Sheerin opened his eyes and moaned as Theremon bent over him. Theremon shook him roughly. \ldblquote All right, get a hold on yourself. We\rquote ve got light.\rdblquote\par
He held the torch at tiptoe height and, propping the tottering psychologist by an elbow, made his way downward in the middle of the protecting circle of illumination.\par
The offices on the ground floor still possessed what light there was, and Theremon felt the horror about him relax.\par
\ldblquote Here,\rdblquote  he said brusquely, and passed the torch to Sheerin. \ldblquote You can hear them outside.\rdblquote\par
And they could. Little scraps of hoarse, wordless shouts.\par
But Sheerin was right; the Observatory was built like a fortress.\par
Erected in the last century, when the neo-Gavottian style of architecture was at its ugly height, it had been designed for stability and durability rather than for beauty.\par
The windows were protected by the grillwork of inch-thick iron bars sunk deep into the concrete sills. The walls were solid masonry that an earthquake couldn\rquote t have touched, and the main door was a huge oaken slab reinforced with iron. Theremon shot the bolts and they slid shut with a dull clang.\par
At the other end of the corridor, Sheerin cursed weakly. He pointed to the lock of the back door which had been neatly jimmied into uselessness.\par
\ldblquote That must be how Latimer got in,\rdblquote  he said.\par
\ldblquote Well, don\rquote t stand there,\rdblquote  cried Theremon impatiently. \ldblquote Help drag up the furniture--and keep that torch out of my eyes. The smoke\rquote s killing me.\rdblquote\par
He slammed the heavy table up against the door as he spoke, and in two minutes had built a barricade which made up for what it lacked in beauty and symmetry by the sheer inertia of its massiveness.\par
Somewhere, dimly, far off, they could hear the battering of naked fists upon the door; and the screams and yells from outside had a sort of half reality.\par
That mob had set off from Saro City with only two things in mind: the attainment of Cultist salvation by the destruction of the Observatory, and a maddening fear that all but paralyzed them. There was no time to think of ground cars, or of weapons, or of leadership, or even of organization. They made for the Observatory on foot and assaulted it with bare hands.\par
And now that they were there, the last flash of Beta, the last ruby-red drop of flame, flickered feebly over a humanity that had left only stark, universal fear!\par
Theremon groaned, \ldblquote Let\rquote s get back to the dome!\rdblquote\par
In the dome, only Yimot, at the solarscope, had kept his place. The rest were clustered about the cameras, and Beenay was giving his instructions in a hoarse, strained voice.\par
\ldblquote Get it straight, all of you. I\rquote m snapping Beta just before totality and changing the plate. That will leave one of you to each camera. You all know about ... about times of exposure--\rdblquote\par
There was a breathless murmur of agreement.\par
Beenay passed a hand over his eyes. \ldblquote Are the torches still burning? Never mind, I see them!\rdblquote  He was leaning hard against the back of a chair. \ldblquote Now remember, don\rquote t ... don\rquote t try to look for good shots. Don\rquote t waste time trying to get t--two stars at a time in the scope field. One is enough. And ... and if you feel yourself going, get away from the camera.\rdblquote\par
At the door, Sheerin whispered to Theremon, \ldblquote Take me to Aton. I don\rquote t see him.\rdblquote\par
The newsman did not answer immediately. The vague forms of the astronomers wavered and blurred, and the torches overhead had become only yellow splotches.\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s dark,\rdblquote  he whimpered.\par
Sheerin held out his hand. \ldblquote Aton.\rdblquote  He stumbled forward. \ldblquote Aton!\rdblquote\par
Theremon stepped after and seized his arm. \ldblquote Wait, I\rquote ll take you.\rdblquote\par
Somehow he made his way across the room. He closed his eyes against the Darkness and his mind against the chaos within it.\par
No one heard them or paid attention to them. Sheerin stumbled against the wall. \ldblquote Aton!\rdblquote\par
The psychologist felt shaking hands touching him, then withdrawing, a voice muttering, \ldblquote Is that you, Sheerin?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Aton!\rdblquote  He strove to breathe normally. \ldblquote Don\rquote t worry about the mob. The place will hold them off.\rdblquote\par
Latimer, the Cultist, rose to his feet, and his face twisted in desperation. His word was pledged, and to break it would mean placing his soul in mortal peril. Yet that word had been forced from him and had not been given freely. The Stars would come soon! He could not stand by and allow-- And yet his word was pledged.\par
Beenay\rquote s face was dimly flushed as it looked upward at Beta\rquote s last ray, and Latimer, seeing him bend over his camera, made his decision. His nails cut the flesh of his palms as he tensed himself.\par
He staggered crazily as he started his rush. There was nothing before him but shadows; the very floor beneath his feet lacked substance. And then someone was upon him and he went down with clutching fingers at his throat.\par
He doubled his knee and drove it hard into his assailant. \ldblquote Let me up or I\rquote ll kill you.\rdblquote\par
Theremon cried out sharply and muttered through a blinding haze of pain. \ldblquote You double-crossing rat!\rdblquote\par
The newsman seemed conscious of everything at once. He heard Beenay croak, \ldblquote I\rquote ve got it. At your cameras, men!\rdblquote  and then there was the strange awareness that the last thread of sunlight had thinned out and snapped.\par
Simultaneously he heard one last choking gasp from Beenay, and a queer little cry from Sheerin, a hysterical giggle that cut off in a rasp--and a sudden silence, a strange, deadly silence from outside.\par
And Latimer had gone limp in his loosening grasp. Theremon peered into the Cultist\rquote s eyes and saw the blankness of them, staring upward, mirroring the feeble yellow of the torches. He saw the bubble of froth upon Latimer\rquote s lips and heard the low animal whimper in Latimer\rquote s throat.\par
With the slow fascination of fear, he lifted himself on one arm and turned his eyes toward the blood-curdling blackness of the window.\par
Through it shone the Stars!\par
Not Earth\rquote s feeble thirty-six hundred Stars visible to the eye; Lagash was in the center of a giant cluster. Thirty thousand mighty suns shone down in a soul-searing splendor that was more frighteningly cold in its awful indifference than the bitter wind that shivered across the cold, horribly bleak world.\par
Theremon staggered to his feet, his throat, constricting him to breathlessness, all the muscles of his body writhing in an intensity of terror and sheer fear beyond bearing. He was going mad and knew it, and somewhere deep inside a bit of sanity was screaming, struggling to fight off the hopeless flood of black terror. It was very horrible to go mad and know that you were going mad--to know that in a little minute you would be here physically and yet all the real essence would be dead and drowned in the black madness. For this was the Dark--the Dark and the Cold and the Doom. The bright walls of the universe were shattered and their awful black fragments were falling down to crush and squeeze and obliterate him.\par
He jostled someone crawling on hands and knees, but stumbled somehow over him. Hands groping at his tortured throat, he limped toward the flame of the torches that filled all his mad vision.\par
\ldblquote Light!\rdblquote  he screamed.\par
Aton, somewhere, was crying, whimpering horribly like a terribly frightened child. \ldblquote Stars--all the Stars--we didn\rquote t know at all. We didn\rquote t know anything. We thought six stars in a universe is something the Stars didn\rquote t notice is Darkness forever and ever and ever and the walls are breaking in and we didn\rquote t know we couldn\rquote t know and anything--\rdblquote\par
Someone clawed at the torch, and it fell and snuffed out. In the instant, the awful splendor of the indifferent Stars leaped nearer to them.\par
On the horizon outside the window, in the direction of Saro City, a crimson glow began growing, strengthening in brightness, that was not the glow of a sun.\par
The long night had come again.\par
\par
\pard (1941)\par
\pard\fi216\qj\f1\par
}
 