{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f30\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f31\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f33\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f34\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f35\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f36\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f37\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title "Breeds There a Man}{\author SeaGull}
{\operator SeaGull}{\creatim\yr2000\mo9\dy15\hr1\min16}{\revtim\yr2000\mo9\dy16\hr1\min46}{\version3}{\edmins1}{\nofpages21}{\nofwords10584}{\nofchars60330}{\*\company Chaos Inc}{\nofcharsws74089}{\vern8247}}
\paperw11916\paperh16800\margl720\margr720\margt3125\margb1354 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace163\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale137\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \psz9\linex0\headery3125\sectlinegrid326\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \fi288\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \cbpat8 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {

\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs36 "Breeds There a Man?\'94
\par }\pard \ql \fi288\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \cbpat8 {\cf1\charscalex81 Copyright \'a9 1951 by Street and Smith Publications, Inc.}{
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard \ql \fi288\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \cbpat8 {\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex93 Police Sergeant Mankiewicz was on the telephone and he wasn't enjoying it. }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex93 
His conversation was sounding like a one-sided view of a firecracker.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex93 He was saying, "That's right! He came in here and said, 'Put me in jail, }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex93 because I want to kill myself.'}{
\par }{\expnd10\expndtw50\cf1\charscalex93 "...}{\cf1\charscalex93  I can't help that. Those were his exact words. It sounds crazy to }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex93 me, too.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex93 ". . . Look, mister, the guy answers the description. You asked me for }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 information and I'm giving it to you.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex93 ". . . He has exactly that scar on his right cheek and he said his name }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 was John Smith. He didn't say it was Doctor anything-at-all.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex93 ". . . Well, sure it's a phony. Nobody is named John Smith. Not in a }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex93 police station, anyway.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex93 ". . . He's in jail now.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex93 ". . . Yes, I mean it.}{
\par }{\expnd10\expndtw50\cf1\charscalex93 "...}{\cf1\charscalex93  }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex93 Resisting an officer; assault and battery; malicious mischief. That's three counts.}{
\par }{\expnd10\expndtw50\cf1\charscalex93 "...}{\cf1\charscalex93  I don't care who he is.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex93 ". . . All right. I'll hold on."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 He looked up at Officer Brown and put his hand over the mouthpiece of }{\cf1\charscalex93 the phone. It was a ham of a hand that nearly swallowed up the phone }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 
altogether. His blunt-featured face was ruddy and steaming under a thatch }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex93 of pale-yellow hair.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 He said, "Trouble! Nothing but trouble at a precinct station. I'd rather be pounding a beat any day."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "Who's on the phone?" asked Brown. He had just come in and didn't really care. He thought Mankiewicz would look better on a suburban beat, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1\charscalex90 too.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "Oak Ridge. Long Distance. A guy called Grant. Head of somethingo-}{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 logical division, and now he's getting somebody else at seventy-five cents a }{\cf1\charscalex90 min . . . Hello!"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 Mankiewicz got a new grip on the phone and held himself down.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "Look," he said, "let me go through this fro
m the beginning. I want you to get it straight and then if you don't like it, you can send someone down here. The guy doesn't want a lawyer. He claims he just wants to stay in jail and, brother, that's all right with me.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 "Well, will you listen? He came in yesterday, walked right up to me, and }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 said, 'Officer, I want you to put me in jail because I want to kill myself.' So I }{
\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 said, 'Mister, I'm sorry you want to kill yourself. Don't do it, because if you }{\cf1\charscalex90 do, you'll regret it the rest of your life.'}{
\par }{\expnd7\expndtw39\cf1\charscalex90 "...}{\cf1\charscalex90  I }{\i\cf1\charscalex90 am }{\cf1\charscalex90 serious. I'm just telling you what I said. I'm not saying it was a funny joke, but I've got my own troubles here, if you know what I mean. }{
\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 Do you think all I've got to do here is to listen to cranks who walk in and\emdash }{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 ". . . Give me a chance, will you?" I said, 'I can't put you in jail for wanting to kill yourself. That's no crime.' And he said, 'But I don't want to }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 
die.' So I said, 'Look, bud, get out of here.' I mean if a guy wants to commit }{\cf1\charscalex90 suicide, all right, and if he doesn't want to, all right, but I don't want him }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 weeping on my shoulder.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 ". . . I'm }{\i\cf1\charscalex90 getting }{\cf1\charscalex90 on with it. So he said to me. }{\expnd2\expndtw13\cf1\charscalex90 'If}{\cf1\charscalex90  I commit a crime, will you put me in jail?" I said, }{
\expnd3\expndtw16\cf1\charscalex90 'If}{\cf1\charscalex90  you're caught and if someone files a charge }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 and you can't put up bail, we will. Now beat it.' So he picked up the inkwell }{\cf1\charscalex90 
on my desk and, before I could stop him, he turned it upside down on the open police blotter.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 ". . . That's right! Why do you think we have 'malicious mischief tabbed on him? The ink ran down all over my pants.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 ". . . Yes, assault and battery, too! I came hopping down to shake a little sense into him, and he kicked me in the shins and handed me one in the }{\expnd-2\expndtw-14\cf1\charscalex90 eye.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 ". . . I'm not making this up. You want to come down here and look at }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex90 my face?}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 ". . . He'll be up in court one of these days. About Thursday, maybe.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 ". . . Ninety days is the least he'll get, unless the psychoes say otherwise. }{\cf1\charscalex90 I think he belongs in the loony-bin myself.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 ". . . Officially, he's John Smith. That's the only name he'll give.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 ". . . No, sir, he doesn't get released without the proper legal steps.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 ", . . O.K., you do that, if you want to, bud! I just do my job here."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 He banged the phone into its cradle, glowered at it, then picked it up and}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 began dialing. He said "Gianetti?", got the proper answer and began talk\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-13\cf1\charscalex91 ing.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "What's the A.E.C.? I've been talking to some Joe on the phone and he }{\expnd-2\expndtw-14\cf1\charscalex91 says\emdash }{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 ". . . No, I'm not kidding, lunk-head. If I were kidding, I'd put up a sign. What's the alphabet soup?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 He listened, said, "Thanks" in a small voice and hung up again.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 He had lost some of his color. "That second guy was the head of the }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 Atomic Energy Commission," he said to Brown. "They must have switched }{\cf1\charscalex91 me from Oak Ridge to Washington."}{

\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 Brown lounged to his feet, "Maybe the F.B.I, is after this John Smith }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 guy. Maybe he's one of these here scientists." He felt moved to philosophy. }{\cf1\charscalex91 
"They ought to keep atomic secrets away from those guys. Things were }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 O.K. as long as General Groves was the only fella who knew about the atom }{\cf1\charscalex91 
bomb. Once they cut in these here scientists on it, though\emdash "}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 "Ah, shut up," snarled Mankiewicz.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 Dr. Oswald Grant kept his eyes fixed on the white line that marked the }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 highway and handled the car as though it were an enemy of his. He always }{\cf1\charscalex91 
did. He was tall and knobby with a withdrawn expression stamped on his }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 face. His knees crowded the wheel, and his knuckles whitened whenever he }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 made a turn.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Inspector Darrity sat beside him with his legs crossed so that the sole of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 his left shoe came up hard against the door. It would leave a sandy mark }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
when he took it away. He tossed a nut-brown penknife from hand to hand. Earlier, he had unsheathed its wicked, gleaming blade and scraped casually at his nails as they drove, but a sudden swerve had nearly cost him a finger and he desisted.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 He said, "What do you know about this Ralson?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Dr. Grant took his eyes from the road momentarily, then returned them. }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 He said, uneasily, "I've known him since he took his doctorate at Princeton. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 He's a very brilliant man."}{

\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "Yes? Brilliant, huh? Why is it that all you scientific men describe one another as 'brilliant'? Aren't there any mediocre ones?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Many. I'm one of them. But Ralson isn't. You ask anyone. Ask Oppen-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 heimer. Ask Bush. He was the youngest observer at Alamogordo."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "O.K. He was brilliant. What about his private life?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Grant waited. "I wouldn't know."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "You know him since Princeton. How many years is that?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 They had been scouring north along the highway from Washington for two hours with scarcely a word between them. Now Grant felt the atmo\-sphere change and the grip of the law on his coat collar.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "He got his degree in '43."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "You've known him eight years then."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex96 " "That's right."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex96 us "And you don't know about his private life?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1\charscalex96 "A man's life is his own, Inspector. He wasn't very sociable. A great many }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex96 of the men are like that. They work under pressure and when they're off the }{
\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex96 job, they're not interested in continuing the lab acquaintanceships."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex96 "Did he belong to any organizations that you know of?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex96 "No."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex96 The inspector said, "Did he ever say anything to you that might indicate }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1\charscalex96 he was disloyal?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex96 Grant shouted "No!" and there was silence for a while.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex96 Then Darrity said, "How important is Ralson in atomic research?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex96 Grant hunched over the wheel and said, "As important as any one man }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex96 can be. I grant you that no one is indispensable, but Ralson has always }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex96 
seemed to be rather unique. He has the engineering mentality."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex96 "What does that mean?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex96 "He isn't much of a mathematician himself, but he can work out the }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex96 gadgets that put someone else's math into life. There's no one like him }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex96 
when it comes to that. Time and again, Inspector, we've had a problem to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex96 lick and no time to lick it in. There were nothing but blank minds all around }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex96 
until he put some thought into it and said, 'Why don't you try so-and-so?' }{\cf1\charscalex96 Then he'd go away. He wouldn't even be interested enough to see if it }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex96 
worked. But it always did. Always! Maybe we would have got it ourselves eventually, but it might have taken months of additional time. I don't know }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex96 
how he does it. It's no use asking him either. He just looks at you and says 'It }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1\charscalex96 was obvious', and walks away. Of course, once he's shown us how to do it, it }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1\charscalex96 is }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1\charscalex96 obvious."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex96 The inspector let him have his say out. When no more came, he said, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex96 "Would you say he was queer, mentally? Erratic, you know."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex96 "When a person is a genius, you wouldn't expect him to be normal, }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1\charscalex96 would you?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex96 "Maybe not. But just how abnormal was this particular genius?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex96 "He never talked, particularly. Sometimes, he wouldn't work." \bullet    "Stayed at home and went fishing instead?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex96 "No. He came to the labs all right; but he would just sit at his desk. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex96 Sometimes that would go on for weeks. Wouldn't answer you, or even look }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex96 
at you, when you spoke to him."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex96 "Did he ever actually leave work altogether?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex96 "Before now, you mean? Never!"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex96 "Did he ever claim he wanted to commit suicide? Ever say he wouldn't }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex96 feel safe except in jail?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex96 "No."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex96 "You're sure this John Smith is Ralson?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex96 "I'm almost positive. He has a chemical bum on his right cheek that can't }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex96 be mistaken."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "O.K. That's that, then I'll speak to him and see what he sounds like." }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 The silence fell for good this time. Dr. Grant followed the snaking line as }{\cf1\charscalex91 
Inspector Darrity tossed the penknife in low arcs from hand to hand.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 The warden listened to the call-box and looked up at his visitors. "We can }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 have him brought up here, Inspector, regardless." }{\cf1\charscalex91 
"No," Dr. Grant shook his head. "Let's go to him." Darrity said, "Is that normal for Ralson, Dr. Grant? Would you expect him to attack a guard trying to take him out of a prison cell?" Grant said, "I can't say."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 The warden spread a calloused palm. His thick nose twitched a little. "We haven't tried to do anything abo
ut him so far because of the telegram from Washington, but, frankly, he doesn't belong here. I'll be glad to have him taken off my hands." "We'll see him in his cell," said Darrity.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 They went down the hard, barlined corridor. Empty, incurious eyes }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 watched their passing.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 Dr. Grant felt his flesh crawl. "Has he been kept }{\i\cf1\charscalex91 here }{\cf1\charscalex91 all the time?" }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 Darrity did not answer.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 The guard, pacing before them, stopped. "This is the cell." Darrity said, "Is that Dr. Ralson?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 Dr. Grant looked silently at the figure upon the cot. The man had been lying down when they first reached the cell, but now he had risen to one elbow and seemed to be trying to shrink into the wall. His hair was sandy }{
\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 and thin, his figure slight, his eyes blank and china-blue. On his right cheek }{\cf1\charscalex91 there was a raised pink patch that tailed off like a tadpole. Dr. Grant said, "That's Ralson."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 The guard opened the door and stepped inside, but Inspector Darrity sent }{\cf1\charscalex91 him out again with a gesture. Ralson watched them mutely. He had drawn both feet up to the cot and
 was pushing backwards. His Adam's apple }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 bobbled as he swallowed.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 Darrity said quietly, "Dr. Elwood Ralson?" }{\cf1\charscalex91 "What do you want?" The voice was a surprising baritone. }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex91 
"Would you come with us, please? We have some questions we would like }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 to ask you."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 "No! Leave me alone!"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 "Dr. Ralson," said Grant, "I've been sent here to ask you to come back to}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex91 work."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 Ralson looked at the scientist and there was a momentary glint of some\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 thing other than fear in his eyes. He said, "Hello, Grant." He got off his cot. }{
\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 "Listen, I've been trying to have them put me into a padded cell. Can't you make them do that for me? You know me, Grant, I wouldn't ask for some\-}{\cf1\charscalex91 
thing I didn't feel was necessary. Help me. I can't stand the hard walls. It makes me want to }{\expnd16\expndtw81\cf1\charscalex91 ...}{\cf1\charscalex91  bash\emdash " He brought the flat of his palm thudding }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 
down against the hard, dull-gray concrete behind his cot.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 \bullet i Darrity looked thoughtful. He brought out his penknife and unbent the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Reaming blade. Carefully, he scraped at his thumbnail, and said, "Would }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 you }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 like to see a doctor?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 i> But Ralson didn't answer that. He followed the gleam of metal and his }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 lips parted and grew wet. His breath became ragged and harsh. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\super :}{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
j   He said, "Put that away!" }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 ,, Darrity paused. "Put what away?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 "The knife. Don't hold it in front of me. I can't stand looking at it." }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 j   Darrity said, "Why not?" He held it out. "Anything wrong with it? It's a }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 good knife."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Ralson lunged. Darrity stepped back and his left hand came down on the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 other's wrist. He lifted the knife high in the air. "What's the matter, Ral\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 son? What are you after?"}{

\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Grant cried a protest but Darrity waved him away. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 I   Darrity said, "What do you want, Ralson?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 <\bullet ,. Ralson tried to reach upward, and bent under the other's appalling grip. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 ;He gasped, "Give me the knife."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "Why, Ralson? What do you want to do with it?" }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\super 1}{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1     "Please. I've got to\emdash " He was pleading. "I've got to stop living."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "You want to die?" }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 i    "No. But I must."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Darrity shoved. Ralson flailed backward and tumbled into his cot, so that }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 it squeaked noisily. Slowly, Darrity bent the blade of his penknife into its }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
sheath and put it away. Ralson covered his face. His shoulders were shaking }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 but otherwise he did not move.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 There was the sound of shouting from the corridor, as the other prisoners }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 reacted to the noise issuing from Ralson's cell. The guard came hurrying }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
down, yelling, "Quiet!" as he went.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Darrity looked up. "It's all right, guard."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 He was wiping his hands upon a large white handkerchief. "I think we'll }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 get a doctor for him."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Dr. Gottfried Blaustein was small and dark and spoke with a trace of an Austrian accent. He needed only a small goatee to be the layman's carica\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
ture of a psychiatrist. But he was clean-shaven, and very carefully dressed. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 He watched Grant closely, assessing him, blocking in certain observations and deductions. He did this automatically, now, with everyone he met.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 He said, "You give me a sort of picture. You describe a man of great }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 talent, perhaps even genius. You tell me he has always been uncomfortable }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 
with people; that he has never fitted in with his laboratory environment, }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1 even though it was there that he met the greatest of success. Is there }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 another environment to which he has fitted himself?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "1 don't understand."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "It is not given to all of us to be so fortunate as to find a congenial type of}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 company at the place or in the field where we find it necessary to make a }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 living. Often, one compensates by playing an instrument, or going hiking, or }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 
joining some club. In other words, one creates a new type of society, when }{\cf1\charscalex91 not working, in which one can feel more at home. It need not have the }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 
slightest connection with what one's ordinary occupation is. It is an escape, }{\cf1\charscalex91 and not necessarily an unhealthy one." He smiled and added, "Myself, I }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 collect stamps. I am an
 active member of the American Society of Philate\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex91 lists."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 Grant shook his head. "I don't know what he did outside working hours. I }{\cf1\charscalex91 doubt that he did anything like what you've mentioned."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 "Um-m-m. Well, that would be sad. Relaxation and enjoyment are wher\-}{\cf1\charscalex91 ever you find them; but you must find them somewhere, no?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 "Have you spoken to Dr. Ralson, yet?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 "About his problems? No."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "Aren't you going to?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 "Oh, yes. But he has been here only a week. One must give him a chance }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 to recover. He was in a highly excited state when he first came here. It was }{
\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 almost a delirium. Let him rest and become accustomed to the new environ\-}{\cf1\charscalex91 ment. I will question him, then."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "Will you be able to get him back to work?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 Blaustein smiled. "How should I know? I don't even know what his }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex91 sickness is."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 "Couldn't you at least get rid of the worst of it; this suicidal obsession of }{\cf1\charscalex91 his, and take care of the rest of the cure while he's at work?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 "Perhaps. I couldn't even venture an opinion so far without several inter\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1\charscalex91 views."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 "How long do you suppose it will all take?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "In these matters, Dr. Grant, nobody can say."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 Grant brought his hands together in a sharp slap. "Do what seems best then. But this is more important than you know."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "Perhaps. But you may be able to help me, Dr. Grant."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 "How?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "Can you get me certain information which may be classified as top }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 secret?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "What kind of information?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 "I would like to know the suicide rate, since 1945, among nuclear scien\-tists. Also, how many have left their jobs to go into other types of scientific }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 wor
k, or to leave science altogether."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "Is this in connection with Ralson?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 "Don't you think it might be an occupational disease, this terrible unhap-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 piness of his?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 "Well\emdash a good many have left their jobs, naturally."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "Why naturally, Dr. Grant?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "You must know how it is, Dr. Blaustein, The atmosphere in modem}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 atomic research is one of great pressure and red tape. You work with the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 government; you work with military men. You can't talk about your work; }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 
you have to be careful what you say. Naturally, if you get a chance at a job in }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 a university, where you can fix your own hours, do your own work, write }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 
papers that don't have to be submitted to the A.E.C., attend conventions }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 that aren't held behind locked doors, you take it."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "And abandon your field of specialty forever."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "There are always non-military applications. Of course, there was one }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 man who did leave for another reason. He told me once he couldn't sleep }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 
nights. He said he'd hear one hundred thousand screams coming from Hiro\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 shima, when he put the lights out. The last I heard of him he was a clerk in }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 a haberdashery."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "And do you ever hear a few screams yourself?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 Grant nodded. "It isn't a nice feeling to know that even a little of the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 responsibility of atomic destruction might be your own."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "How did Ralson feel?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "He never spoke of anything like that."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "In other words, if he felt it, he never even had the safety-valve effect of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 letting off steam to the rest of you."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 "I guess he hadn't."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Yet nuclear research must be done, no?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "I'll say."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "What would you do, Dr. Grant, if you felt you }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 had }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 to do something that }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 you }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 couldn't }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 do."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Grant shrugged. "I don't know." }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 '   "Some people kill themselves." }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 j  "You mean that's what has Ralson down."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "I don't know. I do not know. I will speak to Dr. Ralson this evening. I }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 OBn promise nothing, of course, but I will let you know whatever I can."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Grant rose. "Thanks, Doctor. I'll try to get the information you want."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Elwood Ralson's appearance had improved in the week he had been at }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Dr. Blaustein's sanatorium. His face had filled out and some of the restless\-
ness had gone out of him. He was tieless and beltless. His shoes were with\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 out laces.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Blaustein said, "How do you feel, Dr. Ralson?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Rested."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "You have been treated well?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "No complaints, Doctor."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Blaustein's hand fumbled for the letter-opener with which it was his habit }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 to play during moments of abstraction, but his fingers met nothing. It had }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
been put away, of course, with anything else possessing a sharp edge. There }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 was nothing on his desk, now, but papers.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 He said, "Sit down, Dr. Ralson. How do your symptoms progress?"}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 "You mean, do I have what you would call a suicidal impulse? Yes. It gets }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 worse or better, depending on my thoughts, I think. But it's always with me. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
There is nothing you can do to help."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Perhaps you are right. There are often things I cannot help. But I would }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 like to know as much as I can about you. You are an important man\emdash "}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 Ralson snorted.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "You do not consider that to be so?" asked Blaustein.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1 "No, I don't. There are no important men, any more than there are }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 important individual bacteria."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 "I don't understand."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "I don't expect you to."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 "And yet it seems to me that behind your statement there must have }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 been much thought. It would certainly be of the greatest interest to have }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 you tell me some of this thought."}{

\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 For the first time, Ralson smiled. It was not a pleasant smile. His nostrils }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 were white. He said, "It is amusing to watch you, Doctor. You go about your }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
business so conscientiously. You must listen to me, mustn't you, with just }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 that air of phony interest and unctuous sympathy. I can tell you the most }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
ridiculous things and still be sure of an audience, can't I?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "Don't you think my interest can be real, even granted that it is profes\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 sional, too?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 "No, I don't."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "Why not?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "I'm not interested in discussing it."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Would you rather return to your room?"}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "If you don't mind. No!" His voice had suddenly suffused with fury as he }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 stood up, then almost immediately sat down again. "Why shouldn't I use }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 
you? I don't like to talk to people. They're stupid. They don't see things. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 They stare at the obvious for hours and it means nothing to them. If I spoke }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 to them, they wouldn't understand; they'd lose patie
nce; they'd laugh. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Whereas you must listen. It's your job. You can't interrupt to tell me I'm }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 mad, even though you may think so."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "I'd be glad to listen to whatever you would like to tell me."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Ralson drew a deep breath. "I've known something for a year now, that }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 very few people know. Maybe it's something no }{\i\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 live }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 person knows. Do you }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 know that human cultural advances come in spurts? Over a space of two generations in a city containing thirty thousand free men, enough literary }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 and artistic genius of the first
 rank arose to supply a nation of millions for a }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 century under ordinary circumstances. I'm referring to the Athens of Peri\-}{\expnd-3\expndtw-17\cf1 cles.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 "There are other examples. There is the Florence of the Medicis, the England of Elizabeth, the Spain of the Cordovan Emirs. There was the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
spasm of social reformers among the Israelites of the Eighth and Seventh }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 centuries before Christ. Do you know what I mean?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 \bullet r Blaustein nodded. "I see that history is a subject that interests you." }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 ' "Why not? I suppose there's nothing that says I must restrict myself to }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 
nuclear cross-sections and wave mechanics."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "Nothing at all. Please proceed."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "At first, I thought I could learn more of the true inwardness of historical }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 cycles by consulting a specialist. I had some conferences with a professional }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
historian. A waste of time!"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "What was his name; this professional historian?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "Does it matter?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "Perhaps not, if you would rather consider it confidential. What did he }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 tell you?"}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "He said I was wrong; that history only appeared to go in spasms. He said }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 that after closer studies the great civilizations of Egypt and Sumeria did not }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
arise suddenly or out of nothing, but upon the basis of a long-developing }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 sub-civilization that was already sophisticated in its arts. He said that Peri-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
clean Athens built upon a pre-Periclean Athens of lower accomplishments, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 without which the age of Pericles could not have been.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 "I asked why was there not a post-Periclean Athens of higher accomplish\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 ments still, and he told me that Athens was ruined by a plague and by a long }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
war with Sparta. I asked about other cultural spurts and each time it was }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 a }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 war that ended it, or, in some cases, even accompanied it. He was like all the }{\cf1 rest. The truth was there; he ha
d only to bend and pick it up; but he }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 didn't."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Ralson stared at the floor, and said in a tired voice, "They come to me in }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 the laboratory sometimes, Doctor. They say, 'How the devil are we going to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 
get rid of the such-and-such effect that is ruining all our measurements, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Ralson?' They show me the instruments and the wiring diagrams and I say, }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
'It's staring at you. Why don't you do so-and-so? A child could tell you that.' }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Then I walk away because I can't endure the slow puzzling of their stupid }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 faces. Later, 
they come to me and say, 'It worked, Ralson. How did you }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 figure it out?' I can't explain to them, Doctor; it would be like explaining }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1 that water is wet. And I couldn't explain to the historian. And I can't 
}{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 explain to you. It's a waste of time."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Would you like to go back to your room?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex88 "Yes."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex88 Blaustein sat and wondered for many minutes after Ralson had been escorted out of his office. His fingers found their way automatically into the upper right drawer of his desk and lifted out the letter-opener. He twidd
led it in his fingers.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex88 Finally, he lifted the telephone and dialed the unlisted number he had }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex88 been given.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex88 He said, "This is Blaustein. There is a professional historian who was consulted by Dr. Ralson some time in the past, probably a bit over a year}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex93 ago. I don't know his name. I don't even know if he was connected with a }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 university. If you could find him, I would like to see him."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 Thaddeus Milton, Ph.D., blinked thoughtfully at Blaustein and brushed his hand through his iron-gray hair. He said, "They came to me and I said }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex93 
that I had indeed met this man. However, I have had very little connection }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 with him. None, in fact, beyond a few conversations of a professional na\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex93 ture."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 "How did he come to you?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex93 "He wrote me a letter; why me, rather than someone else, I do not know. }{\cf1\charscalex93 
A series of articles written by myself had appeared in one of the semi-learned journals of semi-popular appeal about that time. It may have at\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex93 tracted his attention."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex93 "I see. With what general topic were the articles concerned?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex93 "They were a consideration of the validity of the cyclic approach to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex93 history. That is, whether one can really say that a particular civilization must }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex93 
follow laws of growth and decline in any matter analogous to those involving }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex93 individuals."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex93 "I have read Toynbee, Dr. Milton."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex93 "Well, then, you know what I mean."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 Blaustein said, "And when Dr. Ralson consulted you, was it with refer\-ence to this cyclic approach to history?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex93 "U-m-m-m. In a way, I suppose. Of course, the man is not an historian and some of his notions about cultural trends are rather dramatic and. . . . }{\cf1\charscalex93 
what shall I say. . . . tabloidish. Pardon me, Doctor, if I ask a question }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 which may be improper. Is Dr. Ralson one of your patients?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex93 "Dr. Ralson is not well and is in my care. This, and all else we say here, is }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex93 confidential, of course."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 "Quite. I understand that. However, your answer explains something to }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex93 me. Some of his ideas almost verged on the irrational. He was always wor\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex93 
ried, it seemed to me, about the connection between what he called 'cul\-tural spurts' and calamities of one sort or another. Now such connections }{\cf1\charscalex93 have been noted frequently. The time of a nation's greatest vitality may }{
\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex93 come at a time of great national insecurity. The Netherlands is a good case }{\cf1\charscalex93 in point. Her great artists, statesmen, and explorers belong to the early }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex93 
Seventeenth Century at the time when she was locked in a death struggle }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 with the greatest European power of the time, Spain. When at the point of }{\cf1\charscalex93 destruction at home, sh
e was building an empire in the Far East and had }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex93 secured footholds on the northern coast of South America, the southern tip }{\cf1\charscalex93 of Africa, and the Hudson Valley of North America. Her fleets fought }{
\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex93 England to a standstill. And then, once her political safety was assured, she }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1\charscalex93 declined.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 "Well, as I say, that is not unusual. Groups, like individuals, will rise to }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex93 strange heights in answer to a challenge, and vegetate in the absence of a}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 challenge. Where Dr. Ralson left the paths of sanity, however, was in insist\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 ing that such a view amounted to confusing cause and effect. He deckred }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
that it was not times of war and danger that stimulated 'cultural spurts', but }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 rather vice versa. He claimed that each time a group of men snowed too }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 much vitality and ability, a war bec
ame necessary to destroy the possibility }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 of their further development."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "I see," said Blaustein.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "I rather laughed at him, I am afraid. It may be that that was why he did }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 not keep the last appointment we made. Just toward the end of that last }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
conference he asked me, in the most intense fashion imaginable, whether I }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 did not think it queer that such an improbable species as man was dominant }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 
on earth, when all he had in his favor was intelligence. There I laughed }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 aloud. Perhaps I should not have, poor fellow."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "It was a natural reaction," said Blaustein, "but I must take no more of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 your time. You have been most helpful."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 They shook hands, and Thaddeus Milton took his leave.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "Well," said Darrity, "there are your figures on the recent suicides among }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 scientific personnel. Get any deductions out of it?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "I should be asking you that," said Blaustein, gently. "The F.B.I, must }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 have investigated thoroughly."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 "You can bet the national debt on that. They }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 are }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 suicides. There's no }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 mistake about it. There have been people checking on it in another depart\-}{
\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 ment. The rate is about four times above normal, taking age, social status, }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 economic class into consideration."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "What about British scientists?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "Just about the same."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "And the Soviet Union?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Who can tell?" The investigator leaned forward. "Doc, you don't think }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 the Soviets have some sort of ray that can make people want to commit }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
suicide, do you? It's sort of suspicious that men in atomic research are the }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 only ones affected."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "Is it? Perhaps not. Nuclear physicists may have peculiar strains imposed }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 upon them. It is difficult to tell without thorough study."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 "You mean complexes might be coming through?" asked Darrity, warily.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Blaustein made a face. "Psychiatry is becoming too popular. Everybody }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 talks of complexes and neuroses and psychoses and compulsions and what\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
not. One man's guilt complex is another man's good night's sleep. If I could }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 talk to each one of the men who committed suicide, maybe I could know }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 something."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "You're talking to Ralson."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Yes, I'm talking to Ralson."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Has }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 he }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 got a guilt complex?"}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "Not particularly. He has a background out of which it would not surprise}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 me if he obtained a morbid concern with death. When he was twelve he }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 saw his mother die under the wheels of an automobile. His father died }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 s
lowly of cancer. Yet the effect of those experiences on his present troubles is }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 not clear."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1 Darrity picked up his hat. "Well, I wish you'd get a move on, Doc. }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 There's something big on, bigger than the H-Bomb. I don't know how }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 anything }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 can }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 be bigger than that, but it is."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Ralson insisted on standing. "I had a bad night last night, Doctor."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "I hope," said Blaustein, "these conferences are not disturbing you."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "Well, maybe they are. They have me thinking on the subject again. It }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 makes things bad, when I do that. How do you imagine it feels being part of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 a bacterial culture, Doctor?"}{

\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 "I had never thought of that. To a bacterium, it probably feels quite }{\expnd-2\expndtw-14\cf1 normal."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Ralson did not hear. He said, slowly, "A culture in which intelligence is }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 being studied. We study all sorts of things as far as their genetic relation\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
ships are concerned. We take fruit flies and cross red eyes and white eyes to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 see what happens. We don't care anything about red eyes and white eyes, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 but we try to gather from them certain b
asic genetic principles. You see }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 what I mean?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Certainly."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Even in humans, we can follow various physical characteristics. There }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 are the Hapsburg lips, and the haemophilia that started with Queen Victo\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
ria and cropped up in her descendants among the Spanish and Russian royal }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 families. We can even follow feeble-mindedness in the Jukeses and Kal-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
likakas. You learn about it in high-school biology. But you can't breed hu\-man beings the way you do fruit flies. Humans live too long. It would take }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 centuries to d
raw conclusions. It's a pity we don't have a special race of men }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 that reproduce at weekly intervals, eh?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 He waited for an answer, but Blaustein only smiled.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Ralson said, "Only that's exactly what we would be for another group of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 beings whose life span might be thousands of years. To them, we would }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 
reproduce rapidly enough. We would be short-lived creatures and they could }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 study the genetics of such things as musical aptitude, scientific intelligence, }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 and so on. Not that those thing
s would interest them as such, any more than }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 the white eyes of the fruit fly interest us as white eyes."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "This is a very interesting notion," said Blaustein.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "It is not simply a notion. It is true. To me, it is obvious, and I don't care }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 how it seems to you. Look around you. Look at the planet, Earth. What }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 
kind of a ridiculous animal are we to be lords of the world after the dinosaurs }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 had failed? Sure, we're intelligent, but what's intelligence? We think it is }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 important because we have it. If the Tyrannosaur
us could have picked out the one quality that he thought would ensure species domination, it would}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 be size and strength. And he would make a better case for it. He lasted }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 longer than we're likely to.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Intelligence in itself isn't much as far as survival values are concerned. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 The elephant makes out very poorly indeed when compared to the sparrow }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
even though he is much more intelligent. The dog does well, under man's }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 protection, but not as well as the house-fly against whom every human hand is raised. Or take
 the primates as a group. The small ones cower before their enemies; the large ones have always been remarkably unsuccessful in doing }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 more than barely holding their own. The baboons do the best and that is }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 because of their canines, not their brains."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 A light film of perspiration covered Ralson's forehead. "And one can see }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 that man has been tailored, made to careful specifications for those things }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
that study us. Generally, the primate is short-lived. Naturally, the larger ones live longer, which is a fairly general rule in animal life. Yet the human being }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 
has a life span twice as long as any of the other great apes; considerably longer even than the gorilla that outweighs him. We mature later. It's as }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 though we've been carefully bred to live a little longer so that our life cycle }
{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 might be of a more convenient length."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 He jumped to his feet, shaking his fists above his head. "A thousand years }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 are but as yesterday\emdash "}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Blaustein punched a button hastily.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 For a moment, Ralson struggled against the white-coated orderly who }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 entered, and then he allowed himself to be led away.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Blaustein looked after him, shook his head, and picked up the telephone.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 He got Darrity. "Inspector, you may as well know that this may take a }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 long time."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 He listened and shook his head. "I know. I don't minimize the urgency."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 The voice in the receiver was tinny and harsh. "Doctor, you }{\i\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 are }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 minimiz\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 ing it. I'll send Dr. Grant to you. He'll explain the situation to you."}{

\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Dr. Grant asked how Ralson was, then asked somewhat wistfully if he }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 could see him. Blaustein shook his head gently.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Grant said, "I've been directed to explain the current situation in atomic }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 research to you."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "So that I will understand, no?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "I hope so. It's a measure of desperation. I'll have to remind you\emdash "}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "Not to breathe a word of it. Yes, I know. This insecurity on the part of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 you people is a very bad symptom. You must know these things cannot be }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 hidden."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "You live with secrecy. It's contagious."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "Exactly. What is the current secret?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "There is }{\expnd12\expndtw64\cf1 ...}{\cf1  }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 or, at least, there might be a defense against the atomic }{\expnd-2\expndtw-14\cf1 bomb."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 "And that is a secret? It would be better if it were shouted to all the }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex89 people of the world instantly."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex89 "For heaven's sake, no. Listen to me, Dr. Blaustein. It's only on paper so }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 far. It's at the E equal me square stage, almost. It may not be practical. It }{\cf1\charscalex89 
would be bad to raise hopes we would have to disappoint. On the other }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex89 hand, if it were known that we }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex89 almost }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex89 had a defense, there }{
\i\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex89 might }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex89 be a desire }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex89 to start and win a war before the defense were completely developed."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 "That I don't believe. But, nevertheless, I distract you. What is the }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex89 nature of this defense, or have you told me as much as you dare?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex89 "No, I can go as far as I like; as far as is necessary to convince you we have }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex89 to have Ralson\emdash and fast!"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex89 "Well, then tell me, and I too, will know secrets. I'll feel like a member of }{\cf1\charscalex89 the Cabinet."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex89 "You'll know more than most. Look, Dr. Blaustein, let me explain it in lay }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex89 language. So far, military advances have been made fairly equally in both }{
\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex89 offensive and defensive weapons. Once before there seemed to be a definite }{\cf1\charscalex89 and permanent tipping of all warfare in the direction of the offense, and }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex89 
that was with the invention of gunpowder. But the defense caught up. The }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex89 medieval man-in-armor-on-horse became the modem man-in-tank-on-treads, }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex89 
and the stone castle became the concrete pillbox. The same thing, you see, except that everything has been boosted several orders of magnitude."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex89 "Very good. You make it clear. But with the atomic bomb comes more orders of magnitude, no? You must go past concrete and steel for protec\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex89 tion."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex89 "Right. Only we can't just make thicker and thicker walls. We've run out }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 of materials that are strong enough. So we must abandon materials alto\-}{\cf1\charscalex89 
gether. If the atom attacks, we must let the atom defend. We will use }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex89 energy itself; a force field."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex89 "And what," asked Blaustein, gently, "is a force field?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex89 "I wish I could tell you. Right now, it's an equation on paper. Energy can }{\cf1\charscalex89 be so channeled as to create a wall of matterless inertia, theoretically. In }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 
practice, we don't know how to do it."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex89 "It would be a wall you could not go through, is that it? Even for atoms?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 "Even for atom bombs. The only limit on its strength would be the }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex89 
amount of energy we could pour into it. It could even theoretically be made to be impermeable to radiation. The gamma rays would bounce off it. What we're dreaming of is a screen that would be in permanent p
lace about cities; at minimum strength, using practically no energy. It could then be triggered }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex89 to maximum intensity in a fraction of a millisecond at the impingement of }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex89 
short-wave radiation; say the amount radiating from the mass of plutonium }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex89 large enough to be an atomic war head. All this is theoretically possible."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex89 "And why must you have Ralson?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 "Because he is the only one who can reduce it to practice, if it can be }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex89 made practical at all, quickly enough. Every minute counts these days. You}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 know what the international situation is. Atomic defense }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 must }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 arrive before }{\cf1\charscalex86 atomic war."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 "You are so sure of Ralson?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 "I am as sure of him as I can be of anything. The man is amazing, Dr. Blaustein. He is always right. Nobody in the field knows how he does it."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 "A sort of intuition, no?" the psychiatrist looked disturbed. "A kind of reasoning that goes beyond ordinary human capacities. Is that it?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 "I make no pretense of knowing what it is."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 "Let me speak to him once more then. I will let you know."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 "Good." Grant rose to leave; then, as if in afterthought, he said, "I might say, Doctor, that if you don't do something, the Commission plans to take Dr. Ralson out of your hands."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex86 "And try another psychiatrist? If they wish to do that, of course, I will not }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 stand in their way. It is my opinion, however, that no reputable practitioner }{\cf1\charscalex86 
will pretend there is a rapid cure."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 "We may not intend further mental treatment. He may simply be re\-turned to work."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 "That, Dr. Grant, I will fight. You will get nothing out of him. It will be his death."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 "We get nothing out of him anyway."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 "This way there is at least a chance, no?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 "I hope so. And by the way, please don't mention the fact that I said anything about taking Ralson away."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 "I will not, and I thank you for the warning. Good-bye, Dr. Grant."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 "I made a fool of myself last time, didn't I, Doctor?" said Ralson. He was }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex86 frowning.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 "You mean you don't believe what you said then?"}{
\par }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex86 "Ida!" }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex86 Ralson's slight form trembled with the intensity of his affirmation.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex86 He rushed to the window, and Blaustein swiveled in his chair to keep him }{\cf1\charscalex86 in view. There were bars in the window. He couldn't jump. The glass was }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex86 unbreakable.}{

\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 Twilight was ending, and the stars were beginning to come out. Ralson stared at them in fascination, then he turned to Blaustein and flung a finger }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 
outward. "Every single one of them is an incubator. They maintain temper\-}{\cf1\charscalex86 atures at the desired point. Different experiments; different temperatures. And the planets that circle them are just huge cultures, containing different }{
\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 nutrient mixtures and different life forms. The experimenters are economi\-}{\cf1\charscalex86 cal, too\emdash whatever and whoever they are. They've cultured many types of }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 
life forms in this particular test-tube. Dinosaurs in a moist, tropical age and }{\cf1\charscalex86 ourselves among the glaciers. They turn the sun up and down and we try to work out the physics of it. Physics!" He drew his lips back in a snarl.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 "Surely," said Dr. Blaustein, "it is not possible that the sun can be turned }{\cf1\charscalex86 up and down at will."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Why not? It's just like a heating element in an oven. You think bacteria }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
know what it is that works the heat that reaches them? Who knows? Maybe they evolve theories, too. Maybe they have their cosmogonies about cosmic }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 catastrophes, in which clashing light-bulbs create strings of Petri dishes. }{
\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Maybe they think there must be some beneficent creator that supplies them }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 with food and warmth and says to them, 'Be fruitful and multiply!'}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "We breed like them, not knowing why. We obey the so-called laws of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 nature which are only our interpretation of the not-understood forces im\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 posed upon us.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "And now they've got the biggest experiment of any yet on their hands. It's been going on for two hundred years. They decided to develop a strain }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 for mechanical aptitud
e in England in the seventeen hundreds, I imagine. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 We call it the Industrial Revolution. It began with steam, went on to elec\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 tricity, then atoms. It was an interesting experiment, but they took their }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 chances on letting it spread. Which is why they'll have to be very drastic }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 indeed in ending it."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Blaustein said, "And how would they plan to end it? Do you have an idea }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 about that?"}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 "You ask }{\i\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 me }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 how they plan to end it. You can look about the world today }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
and still ask what is likely to bring our technological age to an end. All the }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 earth fears an atomic war and would do anything to avoid it; yet all the earth }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 fears that an atomic war is inevitable."}{

\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "In other words, the experimenters will arrange an atom war whether we }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 want it or not, to kill off the technological era we are in, and to start fresh. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 That is it, no?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "Yes. It's logical. When we sterilize an instrument, do the germs know }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 where the killing heat comes from? Or what has brought it about? There is
 some way the experimenters can raise the heat of our emotions; some way }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 they can handle us that passes our understanding."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 "Tell me," said Blaustein, "is that why you want to die? Because you }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 think the destruction of civilization is coming and can't be stopped?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 Ralson said, "I }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 don't }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 want to die. It's just that I must." His eyes were }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 tortured. "Doctor, if you had a culture of germs that were highly dangerous }{
\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 and that you had to keep under absolute control, might you not have an agar }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 medium impregnated with
, say, penicillin, in a circle at a certain distance from the center of inoculation? Any germs spreading out too far from the }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 center would die. You would have nothing against the particular germs who }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
were killed; you might not even know that any germs had spread that far in }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 the first place. It would be purely automatic.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Doctor, there is a penicillin ring about our intellects. When we stray too }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 far; when we penetrate the true meaning of our own existence, we have }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
reached into the penicillin and we must die. It works slowly\emdash but it's hard }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 to stay alive."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex96 He smiled briefly and sadly. Then he said, "May I go back to my room }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex96 \'bbow, Doctor?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex96 Dr. Blaustein went to Ralson's room about noon the next day. It was a }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex96 small room and featureless. The walls were gray with pad
ding. Two small windows were high up and could not be reached. The mattress lay directly }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex96 on the padded floor. There was nothing of metal in the room; nothing that }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex96 
could be utilized in tearing life from body. Even Ralson's nails were clipped }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1\charscalex96 short. }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex96 , Ralson sat up. "Hello!"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex96 "Hello, Dr. Ralson. May I speak to you?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex96 "Here? There isn't any seat I can offer you."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex96 "It is all right. I'll stand. I have a sitting job and it is good for my sitting-}{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex96 down place that I should stand sometimes. Dr. Ralson, I have thought all }{
\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex96 night of what you told me yesterday and in the days before."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex96 "And now you are going to apply treatment to rid me of what you think }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex96 are delusions."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex96 "No. It is just that I wish to ask questions and perhaps to point out some }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex96 consequences of your theories which . . . you will forgive me? . . . you }{
\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex96 may not have thought of."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex96 "Oh?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1\charscalex96 "You see, Dr. Ralson, since you have explained your theories, I, too, know }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex96 what you know. Yet I have no feeling about suicide."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex96 "Belief is more than something intellectual, Doctor. You'd have to believe }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex96 this with all your insides, which you don't."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex96 "Do you not think perhaps it is rather a phenomenon of adaptation?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex96 "How do you mean?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex96 "You are not really a biologist, Dr. Ralson. And although you are very brilliant indeed in physics, you do not think of everything with respect to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex96 
these bacterial cultures you use as analogies. You know that it is possible to breed bacterial strains that are resistant to penicillin or to almost any bacte\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1\charscalex96 rial poison."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1\charscalex96 "Well?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex96 "The experimenters who breed us have been working with humanity for }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex96 many generations, no? And this particular strain which they have been }{\cf1\charscalex96 
culturing for two centuries shows no sign of dying out spontaneously. }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex96 Rather, it is a vigorous strain and a very infective one. Older high-culture }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex96 s
trains were confined to single cities or to small areas and lasted only a }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex96 generation or two. This one is spreading throughout the world. It is a }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex96 very }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex96 infective strain. Do you not think it may have developed penicillin immu\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex96 nity? In other words, the methods the experimenters use to wipe out the }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex96 culture may not work too well any more, no?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex96 Ralson shook his head. "It's working on me."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex96 "You are perhaps non-resistant. Or you have stumbled into a very high}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 concentration of penicillin indeed. Consider all the people who have been }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 trying to outlaw atomic warfare and to establish some form of world govern\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 
ment and lasting peace. The effort has risen in recent years, without too }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 awful results."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "It isn't stopping the atomic war that's coming."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "No, but maybe only a little more effort is all that is required. The peace-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 advocates do not kill themselves. More and more humans are immune to the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
experimenters. Do you know what they are doing in the laboratory?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 "I don't want to know."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "You }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 must }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 know. They are trying to invent a force field that will stop the }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 atom bomb. Dr. Ralson, if I am culturing a virulent and pathological bacte\-}
{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 rium; then, even with all precautions, it may sometimes happen that I will start a plague. We may be bacteria to them, but we are dangerous to them, also, or they wouldn't wipe us out so carefully after each experiment.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 "They are not quick, no? To them a thousand years is as a day, no? By the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 time they realize we are out of the culture, past the penicillin, it will be too }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
late for them to stop us. They have brought us to the atom, and if we can }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 only prevent ourselves from using it upon one another, we may turn out to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 be too much even for the experimenters."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Ralson rose to his feet. Small though he was, he was an inch and a half }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 taller than Blaustein. "They are really working on a force field?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "They are trying to. But they need you."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 "No. I can't."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "They must have you in order that you might see what is so obvious to }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 you. It is not obvious to them. Remember, it is your help, or else\emdash defeat of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
man by the experimenters."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Ralson took a few rapid steps away, staring into the blank, padded wall. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 He muttered, "But there must be that defeat. If they build a force field, it }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
will mean death for all of them before it can be completed."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "Some or all of them may be immune, no? And in any case, it will be }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 death for them anyhow. They are trying."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Ralson said, "I'll try to help them."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Do you still want to kill yourself?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex89 "Yes."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 "But you'll try not to, no?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 "I'll }{\i\cf1\charscalex89 try }{\cf1\charscalex89 not to, Doctor." His lip quivered. "I'll have to be watched."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 Blaustein climbed the stairs and presented his pass to the guard in the lobby. He had already been inspected at the outer gate, but he, his pass, and its signature were now scrutinized once again. After a moment, th
e guard retired to his little booth and made a phone call. The answer satisfied him. }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex89 Blaustein took a seat and, in half a minute, was up again, shaking hands with }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Dr. Grant.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 '\bullet * "The President of the United States would have trouble getting in here, }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 no?" said Blaustein.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 The lanky physicist smiled. "You're right, if he came without warning." }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1\super v}{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1  They took an elevator which traveled twelve floors. The office to which }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
Grant led the way had windows in three directions. It was sound-proofed }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 and air-conditioned. Its walnut furniture was in a state of high polish.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Blaustein said, "My goodness. It is like the office of the chairman of a }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 board of directors. Science is becoming big business."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Grant looked embarrassed. "Yes, I know, but government money flows }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 easily and it is difficult to persuade a congressman that your work is impor\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
tant unless he can see, smell, and touch the surface shine."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 Blaustein sat down and felt the upholstered seat give way slowly. He said, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Dr. Elwood Ralson has agreed to return to work."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 "Wonderful. I was hoping you would say that. I was hoping that was why }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 you wanted to see me." As though inspired by the news, Grant offered the }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
psychiatrist a cigar, which was refused.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "However," said Blaustein, "he remains a very sick man. He will have to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 be treated carefully and with insight."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Of course. Naturally."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "It's not quite as simple as you may think. I want to tell you something of }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 Ralson's problems, so that you will really understand how delicate the situa\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 tion is."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1 He went on talking and Grant listened first in concern, and then in }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 astonishment. "But then the man is out of his head, Dr. Blaustein. He'll be }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 of no use to us. He's crazy."}{

\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 Blaustein shrugged. "It depends on how you define 'crazy.' It's a bad }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 word; don't use it. He had delusions, certainly. Whether they will affect his peculiar talents one cannot know."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "But surely no sane man could possibly\emdash "}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "Please. Please. Let us not launch into long discussions on psychiatric definitions of sanity and so on. The man has delusions and, ordinarily, I }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
would dismiss them from all consideration. It is just that I have been given }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 to understand that the man's particular ability lies in his manner of proceed\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 
ing to the solution of a problem by what seems to be outside ordinary }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 reason. That is so, no?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "Yes. That }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 must }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 be admitted."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "How can you and I judge then as to the worth of one of his conclusions. Let me ask you, do }{\i\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 you }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 have suicidal impulses lately?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 "I don't think so."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "And other scientists here?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "No, of course not."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "I would suggest, however, that while research on the force field pro\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 ceeds, the scientists concerned be watched here and at home. It might even}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 be a good enough idea that they should not go home. Offices like these }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 could be arranged to be a small dormitory\emdash "}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Sleep at work. You would never get them to agree."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Oh, yes. If you do not tell them the real reason but say it is for security }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 purposes, they will agree. 'Security purposes' is a wonderful phrase these }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
days, no? Ralson must be watched more than anyone."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Of course."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "But all this is minor. It is something to be done to satisfy my conscience }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 in case Ralson's theories are correct. Actually, I don't believe them. They }{\i\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 are }{
\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 delusions, but once fiiat is granted, it is necessary to ask what the causes of those delusions are. What is it in Ralson's mind, in his background, in his }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
life that makes it so necessary for him to have these particular delusions? }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 One cannot answer that simply. It may well take years of constant psycho\-analysis to discover the answer. And until the answer is discovered, he will }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 not be cured.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 "But, meanwhile, we can perhaps make intelligent guesses. He has had an }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 unhappy childhood, which, in one way or another, has brought him face to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
face with death in very unpleasant fashion. In addition, he has never been }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 able to form associations with other children, or, as he grew older, with }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
other men. He was always impatient with their slower forms of reasoning. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 Whatever difference there is between his mind and that of others, it has built a wall between him and society as strong as the force field you are }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 trying to design. For similar reasons, he has been unable to enjoy a normal sex life. He has never married; he has had no sweethearts.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "It is easy to see that he could easily compensate to himself for this failure }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 to be accepted by his social milieu by taking refuge in the thought that }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
other human beings are inferior to himself. Which is, of course, true, as far }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 as mentality is concerned. There are, of course, many, many facets to the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
human personality and in not all of them is he superior. No one is. Others, }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 then, who are more prone to see merely what is inferior, just as he himself is, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
would not accept his affected pre-eminence of position. They would think }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 him queer, even laughable, which would make it even more important to Ralson to prove how miserable and inferior the human species was. How }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 could he better do that than to show that mankind was simply a form of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 bacteria to other superior creatures which experiment upon them. And then }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 
his impulses to suicide would be a wild desire to break away completely from }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 being a man at all; to stop this identification with the miserable species he }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 has created in his mind. You see?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Grant nodded. "Poor guy."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 "Yes, it is a pity. Had he been properly taken care of in childhood\emdash  Well, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 it is best for Dr. Ralson that he have no contact with any of the other men }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
here. He is too sick to be trusted with them. You, yourself, must arrange to }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 be the only man who will see him or speak to him. Dr. Ralson has agreed to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
that. He apparently thinks you are not as stupid as some of the others."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 \bullet 5}{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\super !}{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1  Grant smiled faintly. "That is agreeable to me."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1\super Vi}{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1    "You will, of course, be careful. I would not discuss anything with him but }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 his work. If he should volunteer information about his theories, which I }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 doubt, confine yourself to something non-committal, and leave. And at all }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 times, keep away anything that is sharp and pointed. Do not let him reach a }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
window. Try to have his hands kept in view. You understand. I leave my }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 patient in your care, Dr. Grant." }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "I will do my best, Dr. Blaustein."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 For two months, Ralson lived in a comer of Grant's office, and Grant }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 lived with him. Gridwork had been built up before the windows, wooden }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
furniture was removed and upholstered sofas brought in. Ralson did his }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 thinking on the couch and his calculating on a desk pad atop a hassock.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 The "Do Not Enter" was a permanent fixture outside the office. Meals }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 were left outside. The adjoining men's room was marked off for private use }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 
and the door between it and the office removed. Grant switched to an }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 electric razor. He made certain that Ralson took sleeping pills each night }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 and waited till the other slept before sleeping himself.}{

\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 And always reports were brought to Ralson. He read them while Grant }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 watched and tried to seem not to watch.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Then Ralson would let them drop and stare at the ceiling, with one hand }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 shading his eyes.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Anything?" asked Grant. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1\super 1}{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1     Ralson shook his head from side to side.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1 ';   Grant said, "Look, I'll clear the building during the swing shift. It's }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 important that you see some of the experimental jigs we've been setting }{\i\expnd-3\expndtw-17\cf1\super 1}{
\i\expnd-3\expndtw-17\cf1  }{\expnd-3\expndtw-17\cf1 UP \bullet " }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 ,   They did so, wandering through the lighted, empty buildings like drifting}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 * ghosts, hand in hand. Always hand in hand. Grant's grip was tight. But after}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 each trip, Ralson would still shake his head from side to side. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1\super 1}{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1      Half a dozen times he would begin writing; each time there would be a }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1\super ;}{
\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1  few scrawls and then he would kick the hassock over on its side.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Until, finally, he began writing once again and covered half a page rap\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 idly. Automatically, Grant approached. Ralson looked up, covering the sheet }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
of paper with a trembling hand. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 He said, "Call Blaustein." }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "What?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "I said, 'Call Blaustein.' Get him here. Now!" Grant moved to the telephone.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 Ralson was writing rapidly now, stopping only to brush wildly at his }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 forehead with the back of a hand. It came away wet. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 He looked up and his voice was cracked, "Is he coming?" }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Grant looked worried. "He isn't at his office."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1 "Get him at his home. Get him wherever he is. }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1 Use }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1 that telephone. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Don't play with it."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Grant used it; and Ralson pulled another sheet toward himself.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 Five minutes later, Grant said, "He's coming. What's wrong? You're }{\expnd-2\expndtw-13\cf1 looking sick."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Ralson could speak only thickly, "No time\emdash  Can't talk\emdash "}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 He was writing, scribbling, scrawling, shakily diagraming. It was as }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 though he were driving his hands, fighting it.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "Dictatp!" urged Grant. "I'll write."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Ralson shook him off. His words were unintelligible. He held his wrist }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 with his other hand, shoving it as though it were a piece of wood, and then }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 he collapsed over the papers.}{

\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Grant edged them out from under and laid Ralson down on the couch. }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 He hovered over him restlessly and hopelessly until Blaustein arrived.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Blaustein took one look. "What happened?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Grant said, "I think he's alive," but by that time Blaustein had verified }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 that for himself, and Grant told him what had happened.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Blaustein used a hypodermic and they waited. Ralson's eyes were blank }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 when they opened. He moaned.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Blaustein leaned close. "Ralson."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 Ralson's hands reached out blindly and clutched at the psychiatrist. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Doc. Take me back."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "I will. Now. It is that you have the force field worked out, no?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 "It's on the papers. Grant, it's on the papers."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Grant had them and was leafing through them dubiously. Ralson said, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 weakly, "It's not }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 all }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 there. It's all I can write. You'll }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
have }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 to make it out of that. Take me back, Doc!"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Wait," said Grant. He whispered urgently to Blaustein. "Can't you leave }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 him here till we test this thing? I can't make out what most of this is. The }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
writing is illegible. Ask him what makes him think this will work."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "Ask }{\i\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 him?" said }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Blaustein, gentry. "Isn't he the one who always knows?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "Ask me, anyway," said Ralson, overhearing from where he lay on the }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 couch. His eyes were suddenly wide and blazing.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 They turned to him.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 He said, }{\i\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 "They }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 don't want a force field. }{\i\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 They! }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 The experimenters! As long }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
as I had no true grasp, things remained as they were. But I hadn't followed }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 up that thought\emdash }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 that }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 thought which is there in the papers\emdash I hadn't fol\-
lowed it up for thirty seconds before I felt }{\expnd13\expndtw69\cf1 ...}{\cf1  }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 I felt\emdash  Doctor\emdash "}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Blaustein said, "What is it?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Ralson was whispering again, "I'm deeper in the penicillin. I could feel }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 myself plunging in and in, the further I went with that. I've never been in }{\expnd14\expndtw70\cf1 ...}{\cf1  }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 so deep. That's how I knew I was right. Take me away."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 Blaustein straightened. "I'll have to take him away, Grant. There's no }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 alternative. If you can make out what he's written, that's it. If you can't}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 make it out, I can't help you. That man can do no more work in his field}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 without dying, do you understand?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 "But," said Grant, "he's dying of something imaginary."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 "All right. Say that he is. But he will be really dead just the same, no?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 Ralson was unconscious again and heard nothing of this. Grant looked at}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 him somberly, then said, "Well, take him away, then."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 Ten of the top men at the Institute watched glumly as slide after slide }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 filled the illuminated screen. Grant faced them, expression hard and frown\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-14\cf1\charscalex92 ing.}{

\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 He said, "I think the idea is simple enough. You're mathematicians and }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex92 you're engineers. The scrawl may seem illegible, but it was done with mean\-}{
\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 ing behind it. That meaning must somehow remain in the writing, distorted }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 though it is. The first page is clear enough. It should be a good lead. Each }{
\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 one of you will look at every page over and over again. You're going to put }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 
down every possible version of each page as it seems it might be. You will work independently. I want no consultations."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 One of them said, "How do you know it means }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 anything, }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 Grant?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 "Because those are Ralson's notes."}{
\par }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 "Ralson! }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 I thought he was\emdash "}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 "You thought he was sick," said Grant. He had to shout over the rising }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 hum of conversation. "I know. He is. That's the writing of a man who was }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 
nearly dead. It's all we'll ever get from Ralson, any more. Somewhere in that }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 scrawl is the answer to the force field problem. If we can't find it, we may }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 
have to spend ten years looking for it elsewhere."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 They bent to their work. The night passed. Two nights passed. Three }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex92 nights\emdash }{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 Grant looked at the results. He shook his head. "I'll take your word for it }{\cf1\charscalex92 that it is all self-consistent. I can't say I understand it."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 Lowe, who, in the absence of Ralson, would readily have been rated the }{\cf1\charscalex92 best nuclear engineer at the Institute, shrugged. "It's not exactly clear to }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 
me. If it works, he hasn't explained why."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 "He had no time to explain. Can you build the generator as he describes }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex92 it?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 "I could try."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 "Would you look at all the other versions of the pages?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 "The others are definitely not self-consistent."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 "Would you double-check?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex92 "Sure."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 "And could you start construction anyway?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 "I'll get the shop started. But I tell you frankly that I'm pessimistic."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 "I know. So am I." }{\cf1\charscalex58 \bullet  i >\'bb,i, }{\expnd39\expndtw199\cf1\charscalex58 ...}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex94 The thing grew. Hal Ross, Senior Mechanic, was put in charge of the actual construction, and he stopped sleeping. At any hour of the day or }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex94 night, he could be found at it, scratching his bald head.}
{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex94 He asked questions only once, "What is it, Dr. Lowe? Never saw any\-thing like it? What's it supposed to do?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex94 Lowe said, "You know where you are, Ross. You know we don't ask }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex94 questions here. Don't ask again."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex94 Ross did not ask again. He was known to dislike the structure that was }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex94 being built. He called it ugly and unnatural. But he stayed at it.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex94 Blaustein called one day.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex94 Grant said, "How's Ralson?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex94 "Not good. He wants to attend the testing of the Field Projector he }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex94 designed."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex94 Grant hesitated, "I suppose we should. It's his after all."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex94 "I would have to come with him."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex94 Grant looked unhappier. "It might be dangerous, you know. Even in a }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex94 pilot test, we'd be playing with tremendous energies."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex94 Blaustein said, "No more dangerous for us than for you."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex94 "Very well. The list of observers will have to be cleared through the }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex94 Commission and the F.B.I., but I'll put you in."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex94 Blaustein looked about him. The field projector squatted in the very cen\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex94 ter of the huge testing laboratory, but all else had been cleared. There was }{\cf1\charscalex94 
no visible connection with the plutonium pile which served as energy-}{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex94 source, but from what the psychiatrist heard in scraps about him\emdash he knew }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex94 better than to ask Ralson
\emdash the connection was from beneath.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex94 At first, the observers had circled the machine, talking in incomprehen-sibles, but they were drifting away now. The gallery was filling up. There }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex94 
were at least three men in generals' uniforms on the other side, and a real }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex94 coterie of lower-scale military. Blaustein chose an unoccupied portion of the }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex94 
railing; for Ralson's sake, most of all.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex94 He said, "Do you still think you would like to stay?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex94 It was warm enough within the laboratory, but Ralson was in his coat, }{\cf1\charscalex94 with his collar turned up. It made little difference, Blaustein felt. He }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex94 
doubted that any of Ralson's former acquaintances would now recognize }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1\charscalex94 him.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex94 Ralson said, "I'll stay."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex94 Blaustein was pleased. He wanted to see the test. He turned again at a }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1\charscalex94 new voice.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex94 "Hello, Dr. Blaustein."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex94 For a minute, Blaustein did not place him, then he said, "Ah, Inspector Darrity. What are you doing here?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex94 "Just what you would suppose." He indicated the watchers. "There isn't}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 any way you can weed them out so that you can be sure there won't be any mistakes. I once stood as near to Klaus Fuchs as I am standing to you." He tossed his pocketknife into the air and retrieved it with a dexterous motion.}{

\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 "Ah, yes. Where shall one find perfect security? What man can trust }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 even his own unconscious? And you will now stand near to me, no?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Might as well." Darrity smiled. "You were very anxious to get in here, }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 weren't you?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Not for myself, Inspector. And would you put away the knife, please."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 Darrity turned in surprise in the direction of Blaustein's gentle head-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 gesture. He put his knife away and looked at Blaustein's companion for the second time. He whistled softly.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 He said, "Hello, Dr. Ralson."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Ralson croaked, "Hello."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Blaustein was not surprised at Darrity's reaction. Ralson had lost twenty }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 pounds since returning to the sanatorium. His face was yellow and wrinkled; }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
the face of a man who had suddenly become sixty.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Blaustein said, "Will the test be starting soon?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Darrity said, "It looks as if they're starting now."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 He turned and leaned on the rail. Blaustein took Ralson's elbow and }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 began leading him away, but Darrity said, softly, "Stay here, Doc. I don't }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 want you wandering about."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 Blaustein looked across the laboratory. Men were standing about with the }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 uncomfortable air of having turned half to stone. He could recognize Grant, tall and gaunt, movin
g his hand slowly to light a cigarette, then changing his }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 mind and putting lighter and cigarette in his pocket. The young men at the }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 control panels waited tensely.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Then there was a low humming and the faint smell of ozone filled the air.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 Ralson said harshly, "Look!"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Blaustein and Darrity looked along the pointing finger. The projector }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 seemed to flicker. It was as though there were heated air rising between it }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 and them. An iron ball came swin
ging down pendulum fashion and passed through the flickering area.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "It slowed up, no?" said Blaustein, excitedly.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Ralson nodded. "They're measuring the height of rise on the other side to }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 calculate the loss of momentum. Fools! I }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 said }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 it would work." He was }{
\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 speaking with obvious difficulty.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Blaustein said, "Just watch, Dr. Ralson. I would not allow myself to grow }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 needlessly excited."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 The pendulum was stopped in its swinging, drawn up. The flickering }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 about the projector became a little more intense and the iron sphere arced }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 down once again.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Over and over again, and each time the sphere's motion was slowed with }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 more of a jerk. It made a clearly audible sound as it struck the flicker. And}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 eventually, it }{\i\cf1\charscalex86 bounced. }{\cf1\charscalex86 First, soggily, as though it hit putty, and then ring-ingly, as though it hit steel, so that the noise filled the place.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 They drew back the pendulum bob and used it no longer. The projector could hardly be seen behind the haze that surrounded it.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 Grant gave an order and the odor of ozone was suddenly sharp and pun\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex86 gent. There was a cry from the assembled observers; each one exclaiming to }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 
his neighbor. A dozen fingers were pointing.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex86 Blaustein leaned over the railing, as excited as the rest. Where the projec\-}{\cf1\charscalex86 tor had been, there was now only a huge semi-globular mirror. It was per\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex86 
fectly and beautifully clear. He could see himself in it, a small man standing on a small balcony that curved up on each side. He could see the fluorescent }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 
lights reflected in spots of glowing illumination. It was wonderfully sharp.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 He was shouting, "Look, Ralson. It is reflecting energy. It ie reflecting }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 light waves like a mirror. Ralson\emdash "}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 He turned, "Ralson! Inspector, where is Ralson?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 "What?" Darrity whirled. "I haven't seen him."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex86 He looked about, wildly. "Well, he won't get away. No way of getting out }{\cf1\charscalex86 
of here now. You take the other side." And then he clapped hand to thigh, fumbled for a moment in his pocket, and said, "My knife is gone."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 Bkustein found him. He was inside the small office belonging to Hal Ross. It led off the balc
ony, but under the circumstances, of course, it had been deserted. Ross himself was not even an observer. A senior mechanic need not observe. But his office would do very well for the final end of the }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex86 
long fight against suicide.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 Blaustein stood in the doorway for a sick moment, then turned. He caught Darrity's eye as the latter emerged from a similar office a hundred feet down the balcony. He beckoned, and Darrity came at a run.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 Dr. Grant was trembling with excitement. He had taken two puffs at each }{\cf1\charscalex86 of two cigarettes and trodden each underfoot thereafter. He was fumbling with the third now.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 He was saying, "This is better than any of us could possibly have hoped. }{\cf1\charscalex86 We'll have the gunfire test tomorrow. I'm sure of the result now, but we've }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 
planned it; we'll go through with it. We'll skip the small arms and start with }{\cf1\charscalex86 the bazooka levels. Or maybe not. It might be necessary to construct a special testing structure to take care of the ricochet problem."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 He discarded his third cigarette.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 A general said, "We'd have to try a literal atom-bombing, of course."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex86 "Naturally. Arrangements have already been made to build a mock-city at }{\cf1\charscalex86 Eniwetok. We could build a generator on the spot and drop the bomb. There'd be animals inside."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 "And you really think if we set up a field in full power it would hold the }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 bomb?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 "It's not just that, general. There'd be no noticeable field at all until the}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex88 bomb is dropped. The radiation of the plutonium would have to energize }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex88 the field before explosion. As we did here in the last step. That's the essence }{\cf1\charscalex88 of it all."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex88 "You know," said a Princeton professor, "I see disadvantages, too. When }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex88 the field is on full, anything it protects is in total darkness, as far as the sun is }{
\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex88 concerned. Besides that, it strikes me that the enemy can adopt the practice }{\cf1\charscalex88 of dropping harmless radioactive missiles to set off the field at frequent }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex88 
intervals. It would have nuisance value and be a considerable drain on our }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex88 pile as well."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex88 "Nuisances," said Grant, "can be survived. These difficulties will be met }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex88 eventually, I'm sure, now that the main problem has been solved."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex88 The British observer had worked his way toward Grant and was shaking hands. He said, "I feel better about London already. I cannot help but wish }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex88 
your government would allow me to see the complete plans. What I have }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex88 seen strikes me as completely ingenious. It seems obvious now, of course, }{\cf1\charscalex88 but how did anyone ever come to think of it?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex88 Grant smiled. "That question has been asked before with reference to Dr. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex88 Ralson's devices\emdash "}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex88 He turned at the touch of a hand upon his shoulder. "Dr. Blaustein! I had }{\cf1\charscalex88 nearly forgotten. Here, I want to talk to you."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex88 He dragged the small psychiatrist to one side and hissed in his ear, "Lis\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex88 ten, can you persuade Ralson to be introduced to these people? This is his triumph."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex88 Blaustein said, "Ralson is dead." }{\cf1 i, }{\i\cf1 "What'"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 "Can you leave these people for a time?" 5   "Yes . . . yes\emdash  Gentlemen, you will excuse me for a few minutes?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 He hurried off with Blaustein.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 The Federal men had already taken over. Unobtrusively, they barred the doorway to Ross's office. Outside there were the milling crowd discussing }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 
the answer to Alamogordo that they had just witnessed. Inside, unknown to }{\cf1\charscalex87 them, was the death of the answerer. The G-man barrier divided to allow Grant and Blaustein to enter. It closed behind them again.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 For a moment, Grant raised the sheet. He said, "He looks peaceful." }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 i    "I would say\emdash happy," said Blaustein.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 \bullet  Darrity said, colorlessly, "The suicide weapon was my own knife. It was }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 !my negligence; it will be reported as such."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex87 \bullet     "No, no," said Blaustein, "that would be useless. He was my patient and I am responsible. In any case, he would not have lived another week. Since he }{\cf1\charscalex87 
invented the projector, he was a dying man."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 Grant said, "How much of this has to be placed in the Federal files? Can't we forget all about his madness?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 "I'm afraid not, Dr. Grant," said Darrity.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 "I have told him the whole story," said Blaustein, sadly.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 Grant looked from one to the other. "I'll speak to the Director. I'll go to }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 the President, if necessary. I don't see that there need be any mention of }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex91 suicide or of madness. He'll get full publicity as inventor of the field projec\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 tor. It's the least we can do for him." His teeth were gritting.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 Blaustein said, "He left a note."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex91 "A note?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex91 Darrity handed him a sheet of paper and said, "Suicides almost always do. }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 This is one reason the doctor told me about what really killed Ralson."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex91 The note was addressed to Blaustein and it went:}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex91 "The projector works; I knew it would. The bargain is done. You've got it }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 and you don't need me any more. So I'll go. You needn't worry about the }{
\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex91 human race, Doc. You were right. They've bred us too long; they've taken }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 too many ch
ances. We're out of the culture now and they won't be able to stop us. I know. That's all I can say. I know."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 He had signed his name quickly and then underneath there was one }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex91 scrawled line, and it said:}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex91 "Provided enough men are penicillin-resistant."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex91 Grant made a motion to crumple the paper, but Darrity held out a quick }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1\charscalex91 hand.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 "For the record, Doctor," he said.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 Grant gave it to him and said, "Poor Ralson! He died believing all that }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex91 trash."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 Blaustein nodded. "So he did. Ralson will be given a great funeral, I }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex91 suppose, and the fact of his invention will be publicized without the mad\-
ness and the suicide. But the government men will remain interested in his }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 mad theories. They may not be so mad, no, Mr. Darrity?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "That's ridiculous, Doctor," said Grant. "There isn't a scientist on the }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex91 job who has shown the least uneasiness about it at all."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex91 "Tell him, Mr. Darrity," said Blaustein.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex91 Darrity said, "There has been another suicide. No, no, none of the scien\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex91 tists. No one with a degree. It happened this morning, and we investigated }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex91 because we thought it might have some connection with today's test. There }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 didn't seem any, and we were going to keep it quiet till the test was over. Only now there seems to be a co
nnection.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex91 
"The man who died was just a guy with a wife and three kids. No reason to die. No history of mental illness. He threw himself under a car. We have witnesses, and it's certain he did it on purpose. He didn't die right away and they got a doctor to
 him. He was horribly mangled, but his last words were }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 'I feel much better now' and he died."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 "But who was he?" cried Grant.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex91 "Hal Ross. The guy who actually built the projector. The guy whose office }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex91 this is."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 Blaustein walked to the window. The evening sky was darkening into }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1\charscalex91 starriness.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex85 He said, "The man knew nothing about Ralson's views. He had never }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex85 spoken to Ralson, Mr. Darrity tells me. Scientists are probably resistant as a }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex85 
whole. They must be or they are quickly driven out of the profession. Ralson }{\cf1\charscalex85 was an exception, a penicillin-sensitive who insisted on remaining. You see what happened to him. But what about the others; those who have re\-
mained in walks of life where there is no constant weeding out of the sensitive ones. How much of humanity }{\i\cf1\charscalex85 is }{\cf1\charscalex85 penicillin-resistant?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex85 "You }{\i\cf1\charscalex85 believe }{\cf1\charscalex85 Ralson?" asked Grant in horror.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex85 "I don't really know."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex85 Blaustein looked at the stars. }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex85 Incubators?}{
\par }}