{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\lang1033\f0\fs24\par
THE FEELING \b OF\b0  \b POWER\b0\par
\pard\li1385\sl280\slmult0\i by\i0  \i Isaac\i0  \i Asi\f1 m\f0 ov\i0\par
\pard\par
\fs18 JEHAN SHUMAN was used to dealing with the men in authori-\par
\pard\sl30\slmult0 ty on long-embattled Earth. He was only a civilian but he\par
\pard originated programming patterns that resulted in self-direct-\par
\pard\li5\sl25\slmult0 ing war computers of the highest sort. Generals consequent-\par
\pard\sl10\slmult0 ly listened to him. Heads of congressional committees, too.\par
\pard\li205\sl15\slmult0 There was one of each in the special lounge of New\par
\pard\li5\sl15\slmult0 Pentagon. General Weider was space-burnt and had a small\par
\pard\li5\sl10\slmult0 mouth puckered almost into a cipher. Congressman Brant\par
\pard\sl60\slmult0 was smooth-cheeked and clear-eyed. He smoked Denebian\par
\pard\li10 tobacco with the air of one whose patriotism was so no-\par
\pard\li5\sl15\slmult0 torious, he could be allowed such liberties.\par
\pard\li220\sl15\slmult0 Shuman, tall, distinguished,  and Programmer-first-class,\par
\pard\li20\sl15\slmult0 faced them fearlessly.\par
\pard\li225\sl20\slmult0 He said, "This, gentlemen, is Myron Aub."\par
\pard\li225\sl10\slmult0 "The one with the unusual gift that you discovered quite\par
\pard\li15\sl15\slmult0 by accident," said Congressman Brant placidly. "Ah." He\par
\pard\li20\sl15\slmult0 inspected the little man with the egg-bald head with amia-\par
\pard\li20\sl20\slmult0 ble curiosity.\par
\pard\li205\sl10\slmult0 The little man, in return, twisted the fingers of his hands\par
\pard\li10\sl15\slmult0 anxiously. He had never been near such great men before. He\par
\pard\li10\sl60\slmult0 was only an aging low-grade Technician who had long ago\par
\pard\li15 failed all tests designed to smoke out the gifted ones among\par
\pard\li15\sl15\slmult0 mankind and had settled into the rut of unskilled labour.\par
\pard\li20\sl15\slmult0 There was just this hobby of his that the great Programmer\par
had found out about and was now making such a frightening\par
\pard\li25\sl15\slmult0 fuss over.\par
\pard\li225\sl15\slmult0 General Weider said, "I find this atmosphere of mystery\par
\pard\li30\sl15\slmult0 childish."\par
\pard\li230\sl20\slmult0 "You won't in a moment," said Shuman. "This is not some-\par
\pard\li30\sl15\slmult0 thing we can leak to the firstcomer.Aub!" There was some-\par
\pard\li25\sl10\slmult0 thing  imperative  about  his  manner  of  biting  off  that\par
\pard\li35\sl15\slmult0 one-syllable name,  but then he was  a great Programmer\par
speaking to a mere Technician. "Aub! How much is nine\par
\pard times seven?"\fs24\par
\pard\li215\fs18 Aub hesitated a moment. His pale eyes glimmered with a\par
\pard\sl20\slmult0 feeble anxiety. "Sixty-three," he said.\par
\pard\li215\sl15\slmult0 Congressman Brant lifted his eyebrows. "Is that right?"\par
\pard\li215\sl5\slmult0 "Check it for yourself, Congressman."\par
\pard\li210\sl20\slmult0 The Congressman took out his pocket computer, nudged\par
\pard\li5\sl15\slmult0 the milled edges twice, looked at its face as it lay there in\par
\pard\li15\sl15\slmult0 the palm of his hand, and put it back. He said, "Is this the\par
\pard\li25\sl15\slmult0 gift you brought us here to demonstrate? An illusionist?"\par
\pard\li235\sl10\slmult0 "More than that, sir. Aub has memorized a few opera-\par
\pard\li30\sl10\slmult0 tions and with them he computes on paper."\par
\pard\li235\sl20\slmult0 "A paper computer?" said the general. He looked pained.\par
\pard\li245\sl15\slmult0 "No, sir," said Shuman patiently. "Not a paper comput-\par
\pard\li40\sl55\slmult0 er. Simply a sheet of paper. General, would you be so kind\par
\pard\li45\sl15\slmult0 as to suggest a number?"\par
\pard\li260 "Seventeen," said the general.\par
\pard\li255\sl15\slmult0 "And you, Congressman?"\par
\pard\li265\sl10\slmult0 "Twenty-three."\par
\pard\li260\sl20\slmult0 "Good! Aub, multiply those numbers and please show the\par
\pard\li60\sl15\slmult0 gentlemen your manner of doing it."\par
\pard\li270\sl15\slmult0 "Yes, Programmer," said Aub, ducking his head. He fished\par
\pard\li70\sl55\slmult0 a small pad out of one shirt pocket and an artist's hairline\par
\pard\li70 stylus out of the other. His forehead corrugated as he made\par
\pard\li75\sl10\slmult0 painstaking marks on the paper.\par
\pard\li285\sl15\slmult0 General Weider interrupted him sharply. "Let's see that."\par
\pard\li280\sl15\slmult0 Aub passed him the paper, and Weider said, "Well, it\par
\pard\li75\sl15\slmult0 looks like the figure seventeen."\par
\pard\li290\sl20\slmult0 Congressman Brant nodded and said, "So it does, but I\par
\pard\li85\sl60\slmult0 suppose anyone can copy figures off a computer. I think I\par
\pard\li90 could make a passable seventeen myself, even without prac-\par
\pard\li90\sl20\slmult0 tice."\par
\pard\li305\sl40\slmult0 "If you will let Aub continue, gentlemen," said Shuman\par
\pard\li90\sl20\slmult0 without heat.\par
\pard\li300\sl35\slmult0 Aub continued, his hand trembling a little. Finally he said\par
\pard\li100\sl20\slmult0 in a low voice, "The answer is three hundred and ninety-\par
\pard\li105\sl30\slmult0 one."\par
\pard\li315\sl35\slmult0 Congressman Brant took out his computer a second time\par
\pard\li120\sl25\slmult0 and flicked it. "By Godfrey, so it is. How did he guess?"\par
\pard\li315\sl30\slmult0 "No guess, Congressman," said Shuman. "He computed\par
\pard\li115\sl25\slmult0 that result. He did it on this sheet of paper."\par
\pard\li325\sl35\slmult0 "Humbug," said the general impatiently. "A computer is\par
\pard\li125\sl65\slmult0 one thing and marks on paper are another."\par
\pard\li335 "Explain, Aub," said Shuman.\par
\pard "Yes, Programmer.Well, gentlemen, I write down seven-\fs24\par
\pard\li20\fs18 teen and just underneath it, I write twenty-three. Next I say\par
\pard\li25\sl20\slmult0 to myself: seven times three"\par
\pard\li215 The Congressman interrupted smoothly, "Now, Aub, the\par
\pard\li20\sl20\slmult0 problem is seventeen times twenty-three."\par
\pard\li220\sl10\slmult0 "Yes, I know," said the little Technician earnestly, "but I\par
\pard\li25\sl40\slmult0\i start\i0  by saying seven times three because that's the way it\par
\pard\li20 works. Now seven times three is twenty-one."\par
\pard\li225\sl15\slmult0 "And how do you know that?" asked the Congressman.\par
\pard\li220\sl15\slmult0 "I just remember it. It's always fwenty-one on the computer.\par
\pard\li20\sl15\slmult0 I've checked it any number of times."\par
\pard\li220\sl10\slmult0 "That doesn't mean it always will be though, does it?"\par
\pard\li20\sl15\slmult0 said the Congressman.\par
\pard\li220\sl20\slmult0 "Maybe not," stammered Aub. "I'm not a mathematician.\par
\pard\li25\sl15\slmult0 But I always get the right answers, you see."\par
\pard\li220\sl10\slmult0 "Go on."\par
\pard\li225\sl15\slmult0 "Seven times three is twenty-one, so I write down twenty-\par
\pard\li20\sl55\slmult0 one. Then one times three is three, so I write down a\par
\pard\li25 three under the two of twenty-one."\par
\pard\li230\sl15\slmult0 "Why under the two?" asked Congressman Brant at once.\par
\pard\li230\sl10\slmult0 "Because" Aub looked helplessly at his superior for\par
\pard\li20\sl40\slmult0 support. "It's difficult to explain."\par
\pard\li230 Shuman said, "If you will accept his work for the moment,\par
\pard\li25\sl55\slmult0 we can leave the details for the mathematicians."\par
\pard\li225 Brant subsided.\par
\pard\li215\sl10\slmult0 Aub said, "Three plus two makes five, you see, so the\par
\pard\li25\sl30\slmult0 twenty-one becomes a fifty-one. Now you let that go for a\par
\pard\li20 while and start fresh. You multiply seven and two, that's\par
\pard\li20\sl15\slmult0 fourteen, and one and two, that's two. Put them down like\par
\pard\li15\sl15\slmult0 this  and  it  adds  up  to  thirty-four.  Now  if  you  put  the\par
thirty-four under the fifty-one this way and add them, you\par
\pard\li5\sl35\slmult0 get three hundred and ninety-one and that's the answer."\par
\pard\li210 There was an instant's silence and then General Weider\par
\pard\li10\sl5\slmult0 said, "I don't believe it. He goes through this rigmarole and\par
\pard\li10\sl20\slmult0 makes up numbers and multiplies and adds them this way and\par
\pard\li10\sl15\slmult0 that, but I don't believe it. It's too complicated to be anything\par
\pard\li15\sl15\slmult0 but horn-swoggling."\par
\pard\li215\sl20\slmult0 "Oh no, sir," said Aub in a sweat. "It only \i seems\i0  compli-\par
\pard\li15\sl15\slmult0 cated because you're not used to it. Actually, the rules are\par
\pard\li10\sl15\slmult0 quite simple and will work for any numbers."\par
\pard\li215\sl15\slmult0 "Any numbers, eh?" said the general. "Come then." He\par
\pard\li5\sl15\slmult0 took out his own computer (a severely styled Gl model)\par
\pard\li10\sl20\slmult0 and struck it at random. Make a five seven three eight on\par
\pard\li5\sl15\slmult0 the paper. That's five thousand seven hundred and thirty-\par
\pard eight."\fs24\par
\pard\li205\fs18 "Yes, sir," said Aub, taking a new sheet of paper.\par
\pard\li205\sl10\slmult0 "Now," (more punching of his computer), "seven two three\par
\pard\sl25\slmult0 nine. Seven thousand two hundred and thirty-nine."\par
\pard\li210\sl15\slmult0 "Yes, sir."\par
\pard\li210\sl5\slmult0 "And now multiply those two."\par
\pard\li225\sl20\slmult0 "It will take some time," quavered Aub.\par
\pard\li245\sl10\slmult0 "Take the time," said the general.\par
\pard\li225\sl20\slmult0 "Go ahead, Aub," said Shuman crisply.\par
\pard\li225\sl10\slmult0 Aub set to work, bending low. He took another sheet\par
\pard\li35\sl25\slmult0 of paper and another. The general took out his watch finally\par
\pard\li30\sl10\slmult0 and stared at it. "Are you through with your magic-making,\par
\pard\li35\sl5\slmult0 Technician?"\par
\pard\li250\sl25\slmult0 "I'm almost done, sir.Here it is, sir. Forty-one million,\par
\pard\li35\sl20\slmult0 five hundred and thirty-seven thousand, three hundred and\par
\pard\li45 eighty-two." He showed the scrawled figures of the result.\par
\pard\li260\sl20\slmult0 General Weider smiled bitterly. He pushed the multiplica-\par
\pard\li45\sl20\slmult0 tion contact on his computer and let the numbers whirl to\par
\pard\li65\sl60\slmult0 a halt. And then he stared and said in a surprised squeak,\par
\pard\li65 "Great Galaxy, the fella's right."\par
\pard\li265\sl220\slmult0 The President of the Terrestrial Federation had grown\par
\pard\li65\sl15\slmult0 haggard in office and, in private, he allowed a look of\par
settled melancholy to appear on his sensitive features. The\par
\pard\li75\sl15\slmult0 Denebian war, after its early start of vast movement and\par
\pard\li75\sl35\slmult0 great popularity, had trickled down into a sordid matter of\par
\pard\li70\sl35\slmult0 manoeuvre and countermanceuvre, with discontent rising stead-\par
\pard\li80 ily on Earth. Possibly it was rising on Deneb, too.\par
\pard\li285\sl15\slmult0 And now Congressman Brant, head of the important Com-\par
\pard\li75\sl15\slmult0 mittee on Military Appropriations, was cheerfully and smooth-\par
\pard\li85\sl20\slmult0 ly spending his half-hour appointment spouting nonsense.\par
\pard\li295\sl10\slmult0 "Computing without a computer," said the president im-\par
\pard\li80\sl15\slmult0 patiently, "is a contradiction in terms."\par
\pard\li295\sl15\slmult0 "Computing," said the Congressman, "is only a system for\par
\pard\li95\sl15\slmult0 handling data. A machine might do it, or the human brain\par
\pard\li85\sl20\slmult0 might. Let me give you an example." And, using the new\par
\pard\li100\sl15\slmult0 skills  he  had learned,  he worked  out sums  and products\par
\pard\li95\sl15\slmult0 until the president, despite himself, grew interested.\par
\pard\li300\sl15\slmult0 "Does this always work?"\par
"Every time, Mr. President. It is foolproof."\par
\pard\li310\sl20\slmult0 "Is it hard to learn?"\par
\pard\li310\sl15\slmult0 "It took me a week to get the real hang of it. I think you\par
\pard\li95\sl15\slmult0 would do better."\par
\pard\li310\sl15\slmult0 "Well," said the president, considering, "it's an interesting\par
\pard parlour game, but what is the use of it?"\fs24\par
\pard\li200\fs18 "What is the use of a newborn baby, Mr. President? At\par
\pard\sl30\slmult0 the moment there is no use, but don't you see that this\par
\pard\sl5\slmult0 points the way towards liberation from the machine. Consider,\par
\pard\li5\sl15\slmult0 Mr. President," the Congressman rose and his deep voice\par
\pard\li20\sl5\slmult0 automatically took on some of the cadences he used in public\par
\pard\li15\sl25\slmult0 debate, "that the Denebian war is a war of computer against\par
\pard\li5\sl35\slmult0 computer. Their computers forge an impenetrable field of\par
\pard\li5 counter-missiles against our missiles, and ours forge one\par
\pard\li10\sl25\slmult0 against theirs. If we advance the efficiency of our comput-\par
\pard\li15\sl50\slmult0 ers, so do they theirs, and for five years a precarious and\par
\pard\li5 profitless balance has existed.\par
\pard\li215\sl20\slmult0 "Now we have in our hands a method for going beyond\par
\pard\li10\sl25\slmult0 the computer, leapt rogging it, passing through it. We will\par
\pard\li15\sl5\slmult0 combine the mechanics of computation with human thought;\par
\pard\li10\sl65\slmult0 we will have the equivalent of intelligent computers; billions\par
\pard\li20 of them. I can't prediet what the consequences will be in\par
\pard\li20\sl10\slmult0 detail but they will be incalculable. And if Deneb beats us to\par
\pard\li15\sl20\slmult0 the punch, they may be unimaginably catastrophic."\par
\pard\li210\sl10\slmult0 The president said, troubled, "What would you have me\par
\pard\li25\sl20\slmult0 do?"\par
\pard\li230\sl20\slmult0 "Put the power of the administration behind the establish-\par
\pard\li25\sl30\slmult0 ment of a secret project on human computation. Call it\par
\pard\li35 Project Number, if you like. I can vouch for my committee,\par
\pard\li30\sl20\slmult0 but I will need the administration behind me."\par
\pard\li230\sl20\slmult0 "But how far can human computation go?"\par
\pard\li235\sl10\slmult0 "There is no limit. According to Programmer Shuman, who\par
\pard\li20\sl25\slmult0 first introduced me to this discovery"\par
\pard\li220\sl15\slmult0 "I've heard of Shuman, of course."\par
\pard\li215\sl15\slmult0 "Yes. Well, \b Dr.\b0  Shuman tells me that in theory there is\par
\pard\li10\sl15\slmult0 nothing the computer can do that the human mind cannot\par
\pard\li15\sl25\slmult0 do. The computer merely takes a finite amount of data and\par
\pard\li15\sl10\slmult0 performs a finite number of operations upon them. The hu-\par
\pard\li10\sl55\slmult0 man mind can duplicate the process."\par
\pard\li205 The president considered that. He said, "If Shuman says\par
\pard\li15\sl15\slmult0 this, I am inclined to believe himin theory. But, in prac-\par
\pard\li10\sl25\slmult0 tice, how can anyone know how a computer works?"\par
\pard\li210\sl15\slmult0 Brant laughed genially. "Well, Mr. President, I asked the\par
\pard\li15\sl55\slmult0 same question. It seems that at one time computers were de-\par
\pard\li10 signed directly by human beings. Those were simple compu-\par
\pard\li10\sl35\slmult0 ters, of course, this being before the time of the rational use of\par
\pard\li5\sl20\slmult0 computers to design more advanced computers had been es-\par
\pard tablished."\par
\pard\li210\sl25\slmult0 "Yes, yes. Go on."\par
\pard "Technican Aub apparently had, as his hobby, the recon-\fs24\par
\fs18 struction of some of these ancient devices and in so doing he\par
\pard\sl15\slmult0 studied the details of their workings and found he could im-\par
\pard\li5\sl30\slmult0 itate them. The multiplication I just performed for you is\par
\pard\li10\sl50\slmult0 an imitation of the workings of a computer."\par
\pard\li230 "Amazing!"\par
\pard\li215\sl30\slmult0 The Congressman coughed gently, "If I may make another\par
\pard\li15\sl20\slmult0 point, Mr. President The further we can develop this\par
\pard\li20\sl15\slmult0 thing, the more we can divert our Federal effort from com-\par
\pard\li20\sl35\slmult0 puter production and computer maintenance. As the human\par
\pard\li25 brain takes over, more of our energy can be directed into\par
\pard\li35\sl10\slmult0 peacetime pursuits and the impingement of war on the ordi-\par
\pard\li35\sl65\slmult0 nary man will be less. This will be more advantageous for\par
\pard\li45 the party in power, of course."\par
\pard\li255\sl5\slmult0 "Ah," said the president, "I see your point. Well, sit down,\par
\pard\li55\sl25\slmult0 Congressman, sit down. I want some time to think about\par
\pard\li55\sl15\slmult0 this.  But  meanwhile,  show  me  that  multiplication  trick\par
\pard\li60\sl15\slmult0 again. Let's see if I can't catch the point of it."\par
\pard\li275\sl230\slmult0 Programmer Shuman did not try to hurry matters. Loesser\par
\pard\li60\sl55\slmult0 was conservative, very conservative and liked to deal with\par
\pard\li65 computers as his father and grandfather had. Still, he con-\par
\pard\li75\sl10\slmult0 trolled the West European computer combine, and if he could\par
\pard\li65\sl35\slmult0 be persuaded to join Project Number in full enthusiasm, a\par
\pard\li80\sl35\slmult0 great deal would be accomplished.\par
\pard\li285\sl15\slmult0 But Loesser was holding back. He said, "I'm not sure I\par
\pard\li80\sl25\slmult0 like the idea of relaxing our hold on computers. The human\par
mind is a capricious thing. The computer will give the same\par
\pard\li95\sl70\slmult0 answer to the same problem each time. What guarantee\par
\pard\li80 have we that the human mind will do the same?"\par
\pard\li295\sl25\slmult0 "The human mind, Computer Loesser, only manipulates\par
\pard\li95\sl30\slmult0 facts. It doesn't matter whether the human mind or a machine\par
\pard\li90\sl30\slmult0 does it. They are just tools."\par
\pard\li305\sl25\slmult0 "Yes, yes. I've gone over your ingenious demonstration\par
\pard\li95\sl20\slmult0 that the mind can duplicate the computer, but it seems to me\par
\pard\li90\sl70\slmult0 a little in the air. I'll grant the theory but what reason have\par
\pard\li85\sl30\slmult0 we for thinking that theory can be converted to practice?"\par
\pard\li295 "I think we have reason, sir. After all, computers have\par
\pard\li85\sl40\slmult0 not always existed. The cave men with their triremes, stone\par
\pard\li85\sl55\slmult0 axes, and railroads had no computers."\par
\pard\li305 "And possibly they did not compute."\par
\pard\li305\sl30\slmult0 "You know better than that. Even the building of a rail-\par
\pard\li95\sl25\slmult0 road or a ziggurat called for some computing, and that must\par
\pard have been without computers as we know them."\fs24\par
\pard\li210\fs18 "Do you suggest they computed in the fashion you demon-\par
\pard\sl15\slmult0 strate?"\par
\pard\li210\sl10\slmult0 "Probably not. After all, this methodwe call it 'graph-\par
\pard\li10\sl15\slmult0 itics,'  by  the  way,  from  the  old  European  word  'grapho'\par
\pard\sl20\slmult0 meaning 'to write'is developed from the computers them-\par
\pard\li5\sl15\slmult0 selves so it cannot have antedated them. Still, the cave men\par
\pard\li5\sl30\slmult0 must have had \i some\i0  method, eh?"\par
\pard\li220 "Lost arts! If you're going to talk about lost arts"\par
\pard\li220\sl15\slmult0 "No, no. I'm not a lost art enthusiast, though I don't say\par
\pard\li20\sl15\slmult0 there may not be some. After all, man was eating grain be-\par
\pard\li15\sl20\slmult0 fore hydroponics, and if the primitives ate grain, they must\par
\pard\li20\sl10\slmult0 have grown it in soil. What else could they have done?"\par
\pard\li220\sl15\slmult0 "I don't know, but I'll believe in soil-growing when I see\par
\pard\li20\sl60\slmult0 someone grow grain in soil. And I'll believe in making fire\par
\pard\li25 by rubbing two pieces of flint together when I see that, too."\par
\pard\li225\sl15\slmult0 Shuman grew placative. "Well, let's stick to graphitics. It's\par
\pard\li20\sl15\slmult0 just part of the process of etherealization. Transportation by\par
\pard\li30\sl60\slmult0 means of bulky contrivances is giving way to direct mass\par
\pard\li30 transference. Communications devices become less massive\par
\pard\li45\sl20\slmult0 and more efficient constantly. For that matter, compare your\par
\pard\li35\sl10\slmult0 pocket computer with the massive jobs of a thousand years\par
\pard\li45\sl65\slmult0 ago. Why not, then, the last step of doing away with com-\par
\pard\li40 puters altogether? Come, sir. Project Number is a going con-\par
\pard\li45\sl40\slmult0 cern; progress is already headlong. But we want your help.\par
\pard\li40 If patriotism doesn't move you, consider the intellectual ad-\par
\pard\li45\sl35\slmult0 venture involved."\par
\pard\li245 Loesser said sceptically, "What progress? What can you do\par
\pard\li45\sl20\slmult0 beyond multiplication? Can you integrate a transcendental\par
\pard\li35\sl15\slmult0 function?"\par
\pard\li245\sl15\slmult0 "In time, sir. In time. In the last month I have learned\par
\pard\li35\sl35\slmult0 to handle division. I can determine, and correctly, integral\par
\pard\li45 quotients and decimal quotients."\par
\pard\li240\sl10\slmult0 "Decimal quotients? To how many places?"\par
\pard\li250\sl20\slmult0 Programmer Shuman tried to keep his tone casual. "Any\par
\pard\li45\sl15\slmult0 number!"\par
\pard\li250\sl15\slmult0 Loesser's lower jaw dropped. "Without a computer?"\par
"Set me a problem."\par
\pard\li250\sl20\slmult0 "Divide twenty-seven by thirteen. Take it to six places."\par
\pard\li250\sl15\slmult0 Five minutes later, Shuman said, "Two point oh seven six\par
\pard\li45\sl15\slmult0 nine two three."\par
\pard\li245\sl25\slmult0 Loesser checked it. "Well, now, that's amazing. Mulitiplica-\par
\pard\li55\sl10\slmult0 tion didn't impress me too much because it involved in-\par
\pard\li45\sl35\slmult0 tegers after all, and I thought trick manipulation might do\par
\pard it.  But  decimals"\fs24\par
\pard\li200\fs18 "And that is not all. There is a new development that is,\par
\pard\sl70\slmult0 so far, top secret and which strictly speaking, I ought not to\par
\pard mention. Stillwe may have made a breakthrough on the\par
\pard\sl55\slmult0 square root front."\par
\pard\li210 "Square roots?"\par
\pard\li225\sl15\slmult0 "It involves some tricky points and we haven't licked the\par
\pard\li15\sl15\slmult0 bugs yet, but Technician Aub, the man who invented the\par
\pard\li20\sl15\slmult0 science and who has an amazing intuition in connection\par
\pard\li25\sl15\slmult0 with it, maintains he has the problem almost solved. And he\par
\pard\li40\sl15\slmult0 is only a Technician. A man like yourself, a trained and tal-\par
\pard\li30\sl10\slmult0 ented mathematician, ought to have no difficulty."\par
\pard\li240\sl15\slmult0 "Square roots," muttered Loesser, attracted.\par
"Cube roots, too. Are you with us?"\par
\pard\li245\sl15\slmult0 Loesser's hand thrust out suddenly. "Count me in."\par
\pard\li260\sl215\slmult0 General Weider stumped his way back and forth at the\par
\pard\li65\sl25\slmult0 head of the room and addressed his listeners after the fashion\par
\pard\li65\sl20\slmult0 of a savage teacher facing a group of recalcitrant students. It\par
\pard\li70\sl15\slmult0 made no difference to the general that they were the civilian\par
\pard\li80\sl10\slmult0 scientists heading Project Number. The general was the over-\par
\pard\li85\sl20\slmult0 all head, and he so considered himself at every waking mo-\par
\pard\li80\sl25\slmult0 ment.\par
\pard\li290 He said, "Now square roots are all fine. I can't do them\par
\pard\li85\sl10\slmult0 myself and I don't understand the methods, but they're fine.\par
\pard\li85\sl15\slmult0 Still,  the  Project  will  not  be  sidetracked  into  what  some\par
\pard\li90\sl25\slmult0 of you call the fundamentals. You can play with graphitics\par
\pard\li100\sl50\slmult0 any way you want to after the war is over, but right now we\par
\pard\li95 have specific and very practical problems to solve."\par
\pard\li300\sl15\slmult0 In a far corner. Technician Aub listened with painful at-\par
\pard\li105\sl10\slmult0 tention. He was no longer a Technician, of course, having\par
\pard\li115\sl20\slmult0 been relieved of his duties and assigned to the project, with\par
\pard\li120\sl60\slmult0 a fine-sounding title and good pay. But, of course, the social\par
\pard\li110 distinction remained and the highly placed scientific leaders\par
\pard\li115\sl25\slmult0 could never bring themselves to admit him to their ranks\par
\pard\li120\sl55\slmult0 on a footing of equality. Nor, to do Aub justice, did he,\par
\pard\li125 himself, wish it. He was as uncomfortable with them as they\par
\pard\li125\sl25\slmult0 with him.\par
\pard\li330\sl10\slmult0 The general was saying, "Our goal is a simple one, gentle-\par
\pard\li130\sl55\slmult0 men: the replacement of the computer. A ship that can\par
\pard\li140 navigate space without a computer on board can be con-\par
\pard\li140\sl10\slmult0 structed in one fifth the time and at one tenth the expense\par
\pard\li140\sl25\slmult0 of a computer-laden ship. We could build fleets five times,\par
\pard\li145\sl30\slmult0 ten times, as great as Deneb could if we could but eliminate\par
\pard the computer.\fs24\par
\pard\li190\fs18 "And I see something even beyond this. It may be fantastic\par
\pard\li5\sl65\slmult0 now, a mere dream; but in the future I see the manned\par
\pard missile!"\par
\pard\li200\sl15\slmult0 There was an instant murmur from the audience.\par
\pard\li195\sl10\slmult0 The general drove on. "At the present time, our chief bot-\par
\pard\li5\sl15\slmult0 tleneck is the fact that missiles are limited in intelligence.\par
\pard\sl20\slmult0 The computer controlling them can only be so large, and for\par
\pard\li5\sl15\slmult0 that reason they can meet the changing nature  of  anti-\par
\pard\li5\sl10\slmult0 missile defences in an unsatisfactory way. Few missiles, if\par
\pard\li10\sl60\slmult0 any, accomplish their goal and missle warfare is coming to\par
\pard\li5\sl15\slmult0 a dead end; for the enemy, fortunately, as well as for\par
\pard\li15 ourselves.\par
\pard\li215\sl10\slmult0 "On the other hand, a missile with a man or two within,\par
\pard\li15\sl15\slmult0 controlling flight by graphitics, would be lighter, more mo-\par
\pard\li10\sl20\slmult0 bile, more intelligent.  It would give us  a lead that might\par
\pard\li15\sl15\slmult0 well mean the margin of victory. Besides which, gentlemen,\par
the exigencies of war compel us to remember one thing. A\par
\pard\li20\sl55\slmult0 man is much more dispensable than a computer. Manned\par
\pard\li20 missiles could be launched in numbers and under circum-\par
\pard\li20\sl40\slmult0 stances that no good general would care to undertake as far\par
\pard\li30\sl35\slmult0 as computer-directed missiles are concerned"\par
\pard\li225 He said much more but Technician Aub did not wait.\par
\pard\li225\sl10\slmult0 Technician Aub, in the privacy of his quarters, laboured\par
\pard\li35\sl15\slmult0 long over the note he was leaving behind. It read finally\par
\pard\li30\sl60\slmult0 as follows:\par
\pard\li230 "When I began the study of what is now called graphitics,\par
\pard\li35\sl15\slmult0 it was no more than  a hobby.  I  saw no  more in it than an\par
interesting amusement, an exercise of mind.\par
\pard\li225\sl20\slmult0 "When Project Number began, I thought that others were\par
\pard\li25\sl15\slmult0 wiser than 1; that graphitics might be put to practical use\par
\pard\li30\sl60\slmult0 as a benefit to mankind, to aid in the production of really\par
\pard\li35 practical mass-transference devices perhaps. But now I see\par
\pard\li30\sl15\slmult0 it to be used only for death and destruction.\par
\pard\li235\sl20\slmult0 "I cannot face the responsibility involved in having invent-\par
\pard\li25\sl15\slmult0 ed graphitics."\par
\pard\li230\sl15\slmult0 He then deliberately turned the focus of a prot,ein-depolar-\par
\pard\li30\sl10\slmult0 izer on himself and fell instantly and painlessly dead.\par
\pard\li225\sl230\slmult0 They stood over the grave of the little Technician while\par
\pard\li30\sl15\slmult0 tribute was paid to the greatness of his discovery.\par
\pard\li230\sl20\slmult0 Programmer Shuman bowed his head along with the rest\par
\pard\li40\sl15\slmult0 of them, but remained unmoved. The Technician had done\par
\pard\li35\sl10\slmult0 his share and was no longer needed,  after all.  He might\par
\pard have started graphitics, but now that it had started, it would\fs24\par
\fs18 carry on by itself overwhelmingly, triumphantly, until manned\par
\pard\li15 missiles were possible, with who knew what else.\par
\pard\li210\sl20\slmult0 Nine times seven, thought Shuman with deep satisfaction,\par
\pard\li20\sl10\slmult0 is  sixty-three,  and  I  don't  need  a  computer  to  tell  me  so.\par
\pard\li10\sl15\slmult0 The computer is in my own head.\par
\pard And it was amazing the feeling of power that gave him.\par
}
 