{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Book Antiqua;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq1\fcharset128 MS Mincho;}{\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{ Normal;}{\s1 heading 1;}{\s2 heading 2;}{\s3 heading 3;}{\s4 heading 4;}{\s5 heading 5;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\f0\fs20 Version 1.2\par
\par
It was Isaac Asimov who coined the word \ldblquote robotics\rdblquote  almost forty years ago.  No less than seven of his collections have included stories of metal, plastic, and even organic mechanical men (and a woman or two as well, not to mention a dog) whose positronic brains lead them - usually with a little human assistance - into every variety of situation, often of the most unexpected sort and with the most unlooked for consequences.\par
\tab Now Asimov\rquote s robot tales have been gathered under one cover for the first time.  IN THE COMPLETE ROBOT\rquote S thirty one stories you\rquote ll meet Robbie, the faithful nursemaid, and Tony, whose thoughtful and considerate attentions to a lonely wife provoke an all-too-human response.  There are robots who do not behave as they were designed to, robots who obey their iridium brains all too literally, and robots who aspire to humanity.  And then there are the humans:  Mike Donovan and Greg Powel, the field testers for experimental models:  Peter Bogert, Alfred Lanning, Gerald Black, and the rest of the U.S. Robots and Mechanical Men research and development staff - and especially the company\rquote s chief robot-psychologist, the steely Dr. Susan Calvin.\par
\tab Here is every last one of Isaac Asimov\rquote s robot stories, including some which have never before appeared in a book.  Asimov fans, science fiction fans, robot fans, and those who love entertaining, logical, puzzling, and stimulating tales will all welcome THE COMPLETE ROBOT.\par
\par
\b Isaac Asimov\b0  has written 245 books on subjects ranging from the Bible and Shakespeare to astronomy and math to robotics, light-speed travel, and alien encounters.  The inventor of the famous three laws of robotics, he is the author of \i I, Robot\i0  and \i The Foundation Trilogy\i0 .  He lives in New York City.\par
\par
\pard\qc\b\fs40\page The \line Complete \line Robot\par
\pard\b0\fs20\par
\pard\qc\b\i\f1 BY ISAAC ASIMOV\par
\pard\b0\i0\f0\par
\pard\qc Copyright \'a9 1982 by Nightfall, Inc.\par
\pard\par
\pard\keepn\s5\b\i\f1\fs24\page Contents\par
\pard\b0\i0\f0\fs20\par
\pard\li240\tqr\tldot\tx8630\cf1\lang1024\ul\f1\fs24 Introduction\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul Some Non-human Robots\cf0\ulnone\par
\pard\li480\tqr\tldot\tx8630\cf1\ul A Boy\rquote s Best Friend\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul Sally\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul Someday\cf0\ulnone\par
\pard\li240\tqr\tldot\tx8630\cf1\ul Some Immobile Robots\cf0\ulnone\par
\pard\li480\tqr\tldot\tx8630\cf1\ul Point of View\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul Think!\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul True Love\cf0\ulnone\par
\pard\li240\tqr\tldot\tx8630\cf1\ul Some Metallic Robots\cf0\ulnone\par
\pard\li480\tqr\tldot\tx8630\cf1\ul Robot AL-76 Goes Astray\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul Victory Unintentional\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul Stranger in Paradise\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul Light Verse\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul Segregationist\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul Robbie\cf0\ulnone\par
\pard\li240\tqr\tldot\tx8630\cf1\ul Some Humanoid Robots\cf0\ulnone\par
\pard\li480\tqr\tldot\tx8630\cf1\ul Let\rquote s Get Together\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul Mirror Image\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul The Tercentenary Incident\cf0\ulnone\par
\pard\li240\tqr\tldot\tx8630\cf1\ul Powell and Donovan\cf0\ulnone\par
\pard\li480\tqr\tldot\tx8630\cf1\ul First Law\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul Runaround\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul Reason\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul Catch That Rabbit\cf0\ulnone\par
\pard\li240\tqr\tldot\tx8630\cf1\ul Susan Calvin\cf0\ulnone\par
\pard\li480\tqr\tldot\tx8630\cf1\ul Liar!\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul Satisfaction Guaranteed\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul Lenny\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul Galley Slave\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul Little Lost Robot\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul Risk\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul Escape!\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul Evidence\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul The Evitable Conflict\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul Feminine Intuition\cf0\ulnone\par
\pard\li240\tqr\tldot\tx8630\cf1\ul Two Climaxes\cf0\ulnone\par
\pard\li480\tqr\tldot\tx8630\cf1\ul ...That Thou Art Mindful of Him\cf0\ulnone\par
\cf1\ul The Bicentennial Man\cf0\ulnone\par
\pard\li240\tqr\tldot\tx8630\cf1\ul A Last Word\cf0\ulnone\par
\pard\lang1033\f0\fs20\par
\par
\i Dedicated To:\par
\i0\tab Marjorie Goldstein\par
\tab David Bearinger\par
\tab Hugh O\rquote Neill\par
\tab\tab for whom books are in progress\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\b\i\f2\fs28\page Introduction\par
\pard\b0\i0\f0\fs20\par
\tab By the time I was in my late teens and already a hardened science fiction reader, I had read many robot stories and found that they fell into two classes.\par
\tab In the first class there was Robot-as-Menace. I don\rquote t have to explain that overmuch. Such stories were a mixture of \ldblquote clank-clank\rdblquote  and \ldblquote aarghh\rdblquote  and \ldblquote There are some things man was not meant to know.\rdblquote  After a while, they palled dreadfully and I couldn\rquote t stand them.\par
\tab In the second class (a much smaller one) there was Robot-as-Pathos. In such stories the robots were lovable and were usually put upon by cruel human beings. These charmed me. In late 1938 two such stories hit the stands that particularly impressed me. One was a short story by Eando Binder entitled \ldblquote I, Robot,\rdblquote  about a saintly robot named Adam Link; another was a story by Lester del Rey, entitled \ldblquote Helen O\rquote Loy,\rdblquote  that touched me with its portrayal of a robot that was everything a loyal wife should be.\par
\tab When, therefore, on June 10, 1939 (yes, I do keep meticulous records), I sat down to write my first robot story, there was no question that I fully intended to write a Robot-as-Pathos story. I wrote \ldblquote Robbie,\rdblquote  about a robot nurse and a little girl and love and a prejudiced mother and a weak father and a broken heart and a tearful reunion. (It originally appeared under the title--one I hated--of \ldblquote Strange Playfellow.\rdblquote )\par
\tab But something odd happened as I wrote this first story. I managed to get the dim vision of a robot as neither Menace nor Pathos. I began to think of robots as industrial products built by matter-of-fact engineers. They were built with safety features so they weren\rquote t Menaces and they were fashioned for certain jobs so that no Pathos was necessarily involved.\par
\tab As I continued to write robot stories, this notion of carefully engineered industrial robots permeated my stories more and more until the whole character of robot stories in serious printed science fiction changed--not only that of my own stories, but of just about everybody\rquote s.\par
\tab That made me feel good and for many years, decades even, I went about freely admitting that I was \ldblquote the father of the modern robot story.\rdblquote\par
\tab As time went by, I made other discoveries that delighted me. I found, for instance, that when I used the word \ldblquote robotics\rdblquote  to describe the study of robots, I was \i not \i0 using a word that already existed but had invented a word that had never been used before. (That was in my story \ldblquote Runaround,\rdblquote  published in 1942.)\par
\tab The word has now come into general use. There are journals and books with the word in the title and it is generally known in the field that I invented the term. Don\rquote t think I\rquote m not proud of \i that. \i0 There are not many people who have coined a useful scientific term, and although I did it unknowingly, I have no intention of letting anyone in the world forget it.\par
\tab What\rquote s more, in \ldblquote Runaround\rdblquote  I listed my \ldblquote Three Laws of Robotics\rdblquote  in explicit detail for the first time, and these, too, became famous. At least, they are quoted in and out of season, in all sorts of places that have nothing primarily to do with science fiction, even in general quotation references. And people who work in the field of artificial intelligence sometimes take occasion to tell me that they think the Three Laws will serve as a good guide.\par
\tab We can go even beyond that--\par
\tab When I wrote my robot stories I had no thought that robots would come into existence in my lifetime. In fact, I was certain they would not, and would have wagered vast sums that they would not. (At least, I would have wagered 15 cents, which is my betting limit on sure things.)\par
\tab Yet here I am, forty-three years after I wrote my first robot story, and we do have robots. Indeed, we do. What\rquote s more, they are what I envisaged them to be in a way--industrial robots, created by engineers to do specific jobs and with safety features built in. They are to be found in numerous factories, particularly in Japan, where there are automobile factories that are entirely roboticized. The assembly line in such places is \ldblquote manned\rdblquote  by robots at every stage.\par
\tab To be sure, these robots are not as intelligent as my robots are--they are not positronic; they are not even humanoid. However, they are evolving rapidly and becoming steadily more capable and versatile. Who knows where they\rquote ll be in another forty years?\par
\tab One thing we can be sure of. Robots are changing the world and driving it in directions we cannot clearly foresee.\par
\tab Where are these robots-in-reality coming from? The most important single source is a firm called Unimation, Inc., of Danbury, Connecticut. It is the leading manufacturer of industrial robots and is responsible for perhaps one third of all robots that have been installed. The president of the firm is Joseph F. Engelberger, who founded it in the late 1950s because he was so interested in robots that he decided to make their production his life work.\par
\tab But how in the world did he become so interested in robots so early in the game? According to his own words, he grew interested in robots in the 1940s when he was a physics-major undergraduate at Columbia University, reading the robot stories of his fellow Columbian Isaac Asimov.\par
\tab My goodness!\par
\tab You know, I didn\rquote t write my robot stories with much in the way of ambition back in those old, old days. All I wanted was to sell them to the magazines in order to earn a few hundred dollars to help pay my college tuition--and to see my name in print besides.\par
\tab If I had been writing in any other field of literature, that\rquote s all I would have attained. But because I was writing science fiction, and \i only \i0 because I was writing science fiction, I--without knowing it--was starting a chain of events that is changing the face of the world.\par
\tab Joseph F. Engelberger, by the way, published a book in 1980 called \i Robotics in Practice: Management and Application of Industrial Robots \i0 (American Management Associations), and he was kind enough to invite me to write the foreword.\par
\tab All this set the nice people at Doubleday to thinking--\par
\tab My various robot short stories have appeared in no less than seven different collections of mine. Why should they be so separated? Since they appear to be far more important than anyone dreamed they would be (least of all, I) at the time they were written, why not pull them together in a single book?\par
\tab It\b  \b0 wasn\rquote t hard to get me to agree, so here are thirty-one short stories, totaling some 200,000 words, written over a time period stretching from 1939 to 1977--\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\b\i\f2\fs28\page Some Non-human Robots \par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\i0\tab I am not having the robot stories appear in the order in which they were written. Rather, I am grouping them by the nature of the contents. In this first division, for instance, I deal with robots that have a non-human shape--a dog, an automobile, a box. Why not? The industrial robots that have come into existence in reality are non-human in appearance. \par
\tab The very first story, \ldblquote A Boy\rquote s Best Friend,\rdblquote  is not in any of my earlier collections. It was written on September 10, 1974--and you may find in it a distant echo of \ldblquote Robbie,\rdblquote  written thirty-five years earlier, which appears later in this volume. Don\rquote t think I\rquote m not aware of that. \par
\tab You will note, by the way, that in these three stories, the concept of Robot-as-Pathos is clearly marked. You may also notice, however, that in \ldblquote Sally\rdblquote  there seems to be no hint of the Three Laws and that there is more than a hint of Robot-as-Menace. Well, if I want to do that once in a while, I can, I suppose. Who\rquote s there to stop me?\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page A Boy\rquote s Best Friend \par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\tab Mr. Anderson said, \ldblquote Where\rquote s Jimmy, dear?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Out on the crater,\rdblquote  said Mrs. Anderson. \ldblquote Hell be all right Robutt is with him.--Did he arrive?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes. He\rquote s at the rocket station, going through the tests. Actually, I can hardly wait to see him myself. I haven\rquote t really seen one since I left Earth 15 years ago. You can\rquote t count films.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Jimmy has never seen one,\rdblquote  said Mrs. Anderson. \par
\tab\ldblquote Because he\rquote s Moonborn and can\rquote t visit Earth. That\rquote s why I\rquote m bringing one here. I think it\rquote s the first one ever on the Moon.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It cost enough,\rdblquote  said Mrs. Anderson, with a small sigh. \ldblquote Maintaining Robutt isn\rquote t cheap, either,\rdblquote  said Mr. Anderson. \par
\tab Jimmy was out on the crater, as his mother had said. By Earth standards, he was spindly, but rather tall for a 10-year-old. His arms and legs were long and agile. He looked thicker and stubbier with his spacesuit on, but he could handle the lunar gravity as no Earth-born human being could. His father couldn\rquote t begin to keep up with him when Jimmy stretched his legs and went into the kangaroo hop. \par
\tab The outer side of the crater sloped southward and the Earth, which was low in the southern sky (where it always was, as seen from Lunar City) was nearly full, so that the entire crater-slope was brightly lit \par
\tab The slope was a gentle one and even the weight of the spacesuit couldn\rquote t keep Jimmy from racing up it in a floating hop that made the gravity seem nonexistent.\par
\tab\ldblquote Come on, Robutt,\rdblquote  he shouted. \par
\tab Robutt, who could hear him by radio, squeaked and bounded after. \par
\tab Jimmy, expert though he was, couldn\rquote t outrace Robutt, who didn\rquote t need a spacesuit, and had four legs and tendons of steel. Robutt sailed over Jimmy\rquote s head, somersaulting and landing almost under his feet. \par
\tab\ldblquote Don\rquote t show off, Robutt,\rdblquote  said Jimmy, \ldblquote and stay in sight.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Robutt squeaked again, the special squeak that meant \ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t trust you, you faker,\rdblquote  shouted Jimmy, and up he went in one last bound that carried him over the curved upper edge of the crater wall and down onto the inner slope. \par
\tab The Earth sank below the top of the crater wall and at once it was pitch-dark around him. A warm, friendly darkness that wiped out the difference between ground and sky except for the glitter of stars. \par
\tab Actually, Jimmy wasn\rquote t supposed to exercise along the dark side of the crater wall. The grown ups said it was dangerous, but that was because they were never there. The ground was smooth and crunchy and Jimmy knew the exact location of every one of the few rocks. \par
\tab Besides, how could it be dangerous racing through the dark when Robutt was right there with him, bouncing around and squeaking and glowing? Even without the glow, Robutt could tell where he was, and where Jimmy was, by radar. Jimmy couldn\rquote t go wrong while Robutt was around, tripping him when he was too near a rock, or jumping on him to show how much he loved him, or circling around and squeaking low and scared when Jimmy hid behind a rock, when all the time Robutt knew well enough where he was. Once Jimmy had lain still and pretended he was hurt and Robutt had sounded the radio alarm and people from Lunar City got there in a hurry. Jimmy\rquote s father had let him hear about that little trick, and Jimmy never tried it again. \par
\tab Just as he was remembering that, he heard his father\rquote s voice on his private wavelength. \ldblquote Jimmy, come back. I have something to tell you.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab Jimmy was out of his spacesuit now and washed up. You always had to wash up after coming in from outside. Even Robutt had to be sprayed, but he loved it. He stood there on all fours, his little foot-long body quivering and glowing just a tiny bit, and his small head, with no mouth, with two large glassed-in eyes, and with a bump where the brain was. He squeaked until Mr. Anderson said, \ldblquote Quiet, Robutt.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Mr. Anderson was smiling. \ldblquote We have something for you, Jimmy. It\rquote s at the rocket station now, but we\rquote ll have it tomorrow after all the tests are over. I thought I\rquote d tell you now.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote From Earth, Dad?\rdblquote  \i\ldblquote A dog \i0 from Earth, son. A real dog. A Scotch terrier puppy. The first dog on the Moon. You won\rquote t need Robutt any more. We can\rquote t keep them both, you know, and some other boy or girl will have Robutt.\rdblquote  He seemed to be waiting for Jimmy to say something, then he said, \ldblquote You know what a dog is, Jimmy. It\rquote s the real thing. Robutt\rquote s only a mechanical imitation, a robot-mutt. That\rquote s how he got his name.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Jimmy frowned. \ldblquote Robutt isn\rquote t an imitation, Dad. He\rquote s my dog.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Not a real one, Jimmy. Robutt\rquote s just steel and wiring and a simple positronic brain. It\rquote s not alive.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote He does everything I want him to do, Dad. He understands me. Sure, he\rquote s alive.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No, son. Robutt is just a machine. It\rquote s just programmed to act the way it does. A dog \i is \i0 alive. You won\rquote t want Robutt after you have the dog.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The dog will need a spacesuit, won\rquote t he?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yes, of course. But it will be worth the money and he\rquote ll get used to it. And he won\rquote t need one in the City. You\rquote ll see the difference once he gets here.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Jimmy looked at Robutt, who was squeaking again, a very low, slow squeak, that seemed frightened. Jimmy held out his arms and Robutt was in them in one bound. Jimmy said, \ldblquote What will the difference be between Robutt and the dog?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s hard to explain,\rdblquote  said Mr. Anderson, \ldblquote but it will be easy to see. The dog will \i really \i0 love you. Robutt is just adjusted to act as though it loves you.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But, Dad, we don\rquote t know what\rquote s inside the dog, or what his feelings are. Maybe it\rquote s just acting, too.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Mr. Anderson frowned. \ldblquote Jimmy, you\rquote ll \i know \i0 the difference when you experience the love of a living thing.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Jimmy held Robutt tightly. He was frowning, too, and the desperate look on his face meant that he wouldn\rquote t change his mind. He said, \ldblquote But what\rquote s the difference how \i they \i0 act? How about how I feel? I love Robutt and \i that\rquote s \i0 what counts.\rdblquote  \par
\tab And the little robot-mutt, which had never been held so tightly in all its existence, squeaked high and rapid squeaks--happy squeaks.\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Sally\par
\pard\cf2\expndtw-8\b0\f0\fs20\par
\tab Sally was coming down the lake road, so I waved to her and called her by \expndtw-7 name. I always liked to see Sally. I liked all of them, you understand, but \expndtw-6 Sally\rquote s the prettiest one of the lot. There just isn\rquote t any question about it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8 She moved a little faster when I waved to her. Nothing undignified. She was never that. She moved just enough faster to show that she was glad to \expndtw-10 see me, too.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6 I turned to the man standing beside me. \ldblquote That\rquote s Sally,\rdblquote  I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8 He smiled at me and nodded.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 Mrs. Hester had brought him in. She said, \ldblquote This is Mr. Gellhorn, Jake. \expndtw-8 You remember he sent you the letter asking for an appointment.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8 That was just talk, really. I have a million things to do around the Farm, \expndtw-9 and one thing I just can\rquote t waste my time on is mail. That\rquote s why I have Mrs. Hester around. She lives pretty close by, she\rquote s good at attending to foolish\-ness without running to me about it, and most of all, she likes Sally and the rest. Some people don\rquote t.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7\ldblquote Glad to see you, Mr. Gellhorn,\rdblquote  I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6\ldblquote Raymond F. Gellhorn,\rdblquote  he said, and gave me his hand, which I shook \expndtw-12 and gave back.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8 He was a largish fellow, half a head taller than I and wider, too. He was \expndtw-9 about half my age, thirtyish. He had black hair, plastered down slick, with a part in the middle, and a thin mustache, very neatly trimmed. His jawbones \expndtw-2 got big under his ears and made him look as if he had a slight case of\cf0\expndtw0  \cf2\expndtw-4 mumps. On video he\rquote d be a natural to play the villain, so I assumed he was a \expndtw0 nice fellow. It goes to show that video can\rquote t be wrong all the time.\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote I\rquote m Jacob Folkers,\rdblquote  I said. \ldblquote What can I do for you?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 He grinned. It was a big, wide, white-toothed grin. \ldblquote You can tell me a little about your Farm here, if you don\rquote t mind.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-2 I heard Sally coming up behind me and I put out my hand. She slid right \expndtw-3 into it and the feel of the hard, glossy enamel of her fender was warm in my \expndtw-10 palm.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-1\ldblquote A nice automatobile,\rdblquote  said Gellhorn.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-3 That\rquote s one way of putting it. Sally was a 2045 convertible with a Hennis-\expndtw-4 Carleton positronic motor and an Armat chassis. She had the cleanest, finest \expndtw-1 lines I\rquote ve ever seen on any model, bar none. For five years, she\rquote d been my favorite, and I\rquote d put everything into her I could dream up. In all that time, \expndtw0 there\rquote d never been a human being behind her wheel.\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-1 Not once.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Sally,\rdblquote  I said, patting her gently, \ldblquote meet Mr. Gellhorn.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-5 Sally\rquote s cylinder-purr keyed up a little. I listened carefully for any knocking. \expndtw-4 Lately, I\rquote d been hearing motor-knock in almost all the cars and changing the \expndtw-3 gasoline hadn\rquote t done a bit of good. Sally was as smooth as her paint job this \expndtw-5 time, however.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-2\ldblquote Do you have names for all your cars?\rdblquote  asked Gellhorn.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2 He sounded amused, and Mrs. Hester doesn\rquote t like people to sound as though they were making fun of the Farm. She said, sharply, \ldblquote Certainly. \expndtw-3 The cars have real personalities, don\rquote t they, Jake? The sedans are all males \expndtw-1 and the convertibles are females.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-3 Gellhorn was smiling again. \ldblquote And do you keep them in separate garages, \expndtw-5 ma\rquote am?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2 Mrs. Hester glared at him.\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-1 Gellhorn said to me, \ldblquote And now I wonder if I can talk to you alone, Mr. \expndtw-9 Folkers?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote That depends,\rdblquote  I said. \ldblquote Are you a reporter?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote No, sir. I\rquote m a sales agent. Any talk we have is not for publication. I \expndtw-1 assure you I am interested in strict privacy.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Let\rquote s walk down the road a bit. There\rquote s a bench we can use.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-3 We started down. Mrs. Hester walked away. Sally nudged along after us.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-2 I said, \ldblquote You don\rquote t mind if Sally comes along, do you?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Not at all. She can\rquote t repeat what we say, can she?\rdblquote  He laughed at his \expndtw-3 own joke, reached over and rubbed Sally\rquote s grille.\par
\tab\expndtw-2 Sally raced her motor and Gellhorn\rquote s hand drew away quickly.\par
\tab\ldblquote She\rquote s not used to strangers,\rdblquote  I explained.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote We sat down on the bench under the big oak tree where we could look across the small lake to the private speedway. It was the warm part of the day and the cars were out in force, at least thirty of them. Even at this \expndtw-3 distance I could see that Jeremiah was pulling his usual stunt of sneaking up \expndtw-1 behind some staid older model, then putting on a jerk of speed and yowling past with deliberately squealing brakes. Two weeks before he had crowded \expndtw0 old Angus off the asphalt altogether, and I had turned off his motor for two \expndtw-12 days.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2 It didn\rquote t help though, I\rquote m afraid, and it looks as though there\rquote s nothing to be done about it. Jeremiah is a sports model to begin with and that kind is \expndtw-4 awfully hot-headed.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Well, Mr. Gellhorn,\rdblquote  I said. \ldblquote Could you tell me why you want the \expndtw-2 information?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2 But he was just looking around. He said, \ldblquote This \i is \i0 an amazing place, Mr. \expndtw-5 Folkers.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote I wish you\rquote d call me Jake. Everyone does.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote All right, Jake. How many cars do you have here?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-2\ldblquote Fifty-one. We get one or two new ones every year. One year we got five. \expndtw0 We haven\rquote t lost one yet. They\rquote re all in perfect running order. We even have \expndtw-1 a \lquote 15 model Mat-O-Mot in working order. One of the original automatics. It \expndtw0 was the first car here.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 Good old Matthew. He stayed in the garage most of the day now, but then he was the granddaddy of all positronic-motored cars. Those were the days when blind war veterans, paraplegics and heads of state were the only \expndtw-1 ones who drove automatics. But Samson Harridge was my boss and he was \expndtw0 rich enough to be able to get one. I was his chauffeur at the time.\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 The thought makes me feel old. I can remember when there wasn\rquote t an automobile in the world with brains enough to find its own way home. I chauffeured dead lumps of machines that needed a man\rquote s hand at their controls every minute. Every year machines like that used to kill tens of \expndtw-1 thousands of people.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2 The automatics fixed that. A positronic brain can react much faster than a human one, of course, and it paid people to keep hands off the controls. You got in, punched your destination and let it go its own way.\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-1 We take it for granted now, but I remember when the first laws came out forcing the old machines off the highways and limiting travel to automatics. \expndtw0 Lord, what a fuss. They called it everything from communism to fascism, but it emptied the highways and stopped the killing, and still more people get around more easily the new way.\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-1 Of course, the automatics were ten to a hundred times as expensive as the \expndtw0 hand-driven ones, and there weren\rquote t many that could afford a private vehi\-\expndtw-2 cle. The industry specialized in turning out omnibus-automatics. You could always call a company and have one stop at your door in a matter of minutes \expndtw-1 and take you where you wanted to go. Usually, you had to drive with others \expndtw0 who were going your way, but what\rquote s wrong with that?\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 Samson Harridge had a private car though, and I went to him the minute \expndtw-1 it arrived. The car wasn\rquote t Matthew to me then. I didn\rquote t know it was going to \expndtw-8 be the dean of the Farm some day. I only knew it was taking my job away \expndtw-4 and I hated it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8 I said, \ldblquote You won\rquote t be needing me any more, Mr. Harridge?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 He said, \ldblquote What are you dithering about, Jake? You don\rquote t think I\rquote ll trust \expndtw-8 myself to a contraption like that, do you? You stay right at the controls.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-4 I said, \ldblquote But it works by itself, Mr. Harridge. It scans the road, reacts \expndtw-5 properly to obstacles, humans, and other cars, and remembers routes to \expndtw-13 travel.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7\ldblquote So they say. So they say. Just the same, you\rquote re sitting right behind the \expndtw-10 wheel in case anything goes wrong.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9 Funny how you can get to like a car. In no time I was calling it Matthew \expndtw-8 and was spending all my time keeping it polished and humming. A posi\-tronic brain stays in condition best when it\rquote s got control of its chassis at all times, which means it\rquote s worth keeping the gas tank filled so that the motor \expndtw-10 can turn over slowly day and night. After a while, it got so I could tell by the \expndtw-7 sound of the motor how Matthew felt.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-10 In his own way, Harridge grew fond of Matthew, too. He had no one else to like. He\rquote d divorced or outlived three wives and outlived five children and \expndtw-6 three grandchildren. So when he died, maybe it wasn\rquote t surprising that he \expndtw-7 had his estate converted into a Farm for Retired Automobiles, with me in \expndtw-8 charge and Matthew the first member of a distinguished line.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 It\rquote s turned out to be my life. I never got married. You can\rquote t get married \expndtw-8 and still tend to automatics the way you should.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-4 The newspapers thought it was funny, but after a while they stopped \expndtw-10 joking about it. Some things you can\rquote t joke about. Maybe you\rquote ve never been \expndtw-6 able to afford an automatic and maybe you never will, either, but take it \expndtw-7 from me, you get to love them. They\rquote re hard-working and affectionate. It takes a man with no heart to mistreat one or to see one mistreated.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 It got so that after a man had an automatic for a while, he would make provisions for having it left to the Farm, if he didn\rquote t have an heir he could \expndtw-8 rely on to give it good care.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 I explained that to Gellhorn.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 He said, \ldblquote Fifty-one cars! That represents a lot of money.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6\ldblquote Fifty thousand minimum per automatic, original investment,\rdblquote  I said. \ldblquote They\rquote re worth a lot more now. I\rquote ve done things for them.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-5\ldblquote It must take a lot of money to keep up the Farm.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9\ldblquote You\rquote re right there. The Farm\rquote s a non-profit organization, which gives us \expndtw-8 a break on taxes and, of course, new automatics that come in usually have \expndtw-11 trust funds attached. Still, costs are always going up. I have to keep the place \expndtw-8 landscaped; I keep laying down new asphalt and keeping the old in repair; there\rquote s gasoline, oil, repairs, and new gadgets. It adds up.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6\ldblquote And you\rquote ve spent a long time at it.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7\ldblquote I sure have, Mr. Gellhorn. Thirty-three years.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7\ldblquote You don\rquote t seem to be getting much out of it yourself.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-2\ldblquote I don\rquote t? You surprise me, Mr. Gellhorn. I\rquote ve got Sally and fifty others. \expndtw-3 Look at her.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-4 I was grinning. I couldn\rquote t help it. Sally was so clean, it almost hurt. Some insect must have died on her windshield or one speck of dust too many had \expndtw0 landed, so she was going to work. A little tube protruded and spurted \expndtw-4 Tergosol over the glass. It spread quickly over the silicone surface film and \expndtw-6 squeejees snapped into place instantly, passing over the windshield and forc\-\expndtw0 ing the. water into the little channel that led it, dripping, down to the ground. Not a speck of water got onto her glistening apple-green hood. \expndtw-3 Squeejee and detergent tube snapped back into place and disappeared.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-2 Gellhorn said, \ldblquote I never saw an automatic do that.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-4\ldblquote I guess not,\rdblquote  I said. \ldblquote I fixed that up specially on our cars. They\rquote re clean. \expndtw-6 They\rquote re always scrubbing their glass. They like it. I\rquote ve even got Sally fixed up \expndtw-4 with wax jets. She polishes herself every night till you can see your face in \expndtw-3 any part of her and shave by it. If I can scrape up the money, I\rquote d be putting \expndtw-2 it on the rest of the girls. Convertibles are very vain.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-1\ldblquote I can tell you how to scrape up the money, if that interests you.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-5\ldblquote That always does. How?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6\ldblquote Isn\rquote t it obvious, fake? Any of your cars is worth fifty thousand minimum, \expndtw-2 you said. I\rquote ll bet most of them top six figures.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9\ldblquote So?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-3\ldblquote Ever think of selling a few?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-3 I shook my head. \ldblquote You don\rquote t realize it, I guess, Mr. Gellhorn, but I can\rquote t \expndtw-1 sell any of these. They belong to the Farm, not to me.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-2\ldblquote The money would go to the Farm.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote The incorporation papers of the Farm provide that the cars receive \expndtw-2 perpetual care. They can\rquote t be sold.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote What about the motors, then?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-1\ldblquote I don\rquote t understand you.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-5 Gellhorn shifted position and his voice got confidential. \i\ldblquote Look \i0 here, Jake, \expndtw-2 let me explain the situation. There\rquote s a big market for private automatics if \expndtw-3 they could only be made cheaply enough. Right?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-1\ldblquote That\rquote s no secret.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-2\ldblquote And ninety-five per cent of the cost is the motor. Right? Now, I know \expndtw-7 where we can get a supply of bodies. I also know where we can sell automat\-\expndtw0 ics at a good price--twenty or thirty thousand for the cheaper models, \expndtw-3 maybe fifty or sixty for the better ones. All I need are the motors. You see \expndtw-4 the solution?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote I don\rquote t, Mr. Gellhorn.\rdblquote  I did, but I wanted him to spell it out.\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote It\rquote s right here. You\rquote ve got fifty-one of them. You\rquote re an expert auto\expndtw-6 matobile mechanic, Jake. You must be. You could unhook a motor and place \expndtw-2 it in another car so that no one would know the difference.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-2\ldblquote It wouldn\rquote t be exactly ethical.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6\ldblquote You wouldn\rquote t be harming the cars. You\rquote d be doing them a favor. Use \expndtw-8 your older cars. Use that old Mat-O-Mot.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6\ldblquote Well, now, wait a while, Mr. Gellhorn. The motors and bodies aren\rquote t two separate items. They\rquote re a single unit. Those motors are used to their \expndtw-8 own bodies. They wouldn\rquote t be happy in another car.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8\ldblquote All right, that\rquote s a point. That\rquote s a very good point, Jake. It would be like \expndtw-7 taking your mind and putting it in someone else\rquote s skull. Right? You don\rquote t \expndtw-8 think you would like that?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-4\ldblquote I don\rquote t think I would. No.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9\ldblquote But what if I took your mind and put it into the body of a young athlete. \expndtw-5 What about that, Jake? You\rquote re not a youngster anymore. If you had the \expndtw-7 chance, wouldn\rquote t you enjoy being twenty again? That\rquote s what I\rquote m offering \expndtw-6 some of your positronic motors. They\rquote ll be put into new \lquote 57 bodies. The \expndtw-8 latest construction.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 I laughed. \ldblquote That doesn\rquote t make much sense, Mr. Gellhorn. Some of our cars may be old, but they\rquote re well-cared for. Nobody drives them. They\rquote re \expndtw-6 allowed their own way. They\rquote re \i retired, \i0 Mr. Gellhorn. I wouldn\rquote t want a \expndtw-9 twenty-year-old body if it meant I had to dig ditches for the rest of my new \expndtw-5 life and never have enough to eat. . . . What do you think, Sally?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8 Sally\rquote s two doors opened and then shut with a cushioned slam.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6\ldblquote What that?\rdblquote  said Gellhorn.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8\ldblquote That\rquote s the way Sally laughs.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9 Gellhorn forced a smile. I guess he thought I was making a bad joke. He \expndtw-7 said, \ldblquote Talk sense, Jake. Cars are \i made \i0 to be driven. They\rquote re probably not happy if you don\rquote t drive them.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8 I said, \ldblquote Sally hasn\rquote t been driven in five years. She looks happy to me.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7\ldblquote I wonder.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8 He got up and walked toward Sally slowly. \ldblquote Hi, Sally, how\rquote d you like a \expndtw-15 drive?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-10 Sally\rquote s motor revved up. She backed away.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6\ldblquote Don\rquote t push her, Mr. Gellhorn,\rdblquote  I said. \ldblquote She\rquote s liable to be a little skit\-\expndtw-10 tish.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9 Two sedans were about a hundred yards up the road. They had stopped. Maybe, in their own way, they were watching. I didn\rquote t bother about them. I \expndtw-7 had my eyes on Sally, and I kept them there.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 Gellhorn said, \ldblquote Steady now, Sally.\rdblquote  He lunged out and seized the door handle. It didn\rquote t budge, of course.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6 He said, \ldblquote It opened a minute ago.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9 I said, \ldblquote Automatic lock. She\rquote s got a sense of privacy, Sally has.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-3 He let go, then said, slowly and deliberately, \ldblquote A car with a sense of \expndtw-8 privacy shouldn\rquote t go around with its top down.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 He stepped back three or four paces, then quickly, so quickly I couldn\rquote t \expndtw-8 take a step to stop him, he ran forward and vaulted into the car. He caught \expndtw-5 Sally completely by surprise, because as he came down, he shut off the \expndtw-8 ignition before she could lock it in place.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9 For the first time in five years, Sally\rquote s motor was dead.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-5 I think I yelled, but Gellhorn had the switch on \ldblquote Manual\rdblquote  and locked \expndtw-10 that in place, too. He kicked the motor into action. Sally was alive again but \expndtw-8 she had no freedom of action.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-3 He started up the road. The sedans were still there. They turned and \expndtw-9 drifted away, not very quickly.  I suppose it was all a puzzle to them.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9 One was Giuseppe, from the Milan factories, and the other was Stephen. \expndtw-6 They were always together. They were both new at the Farm, but they\rquote d \expndtw-7 been here long enough to know that our cars just didn\rquote t have drivers.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-5 Gellhorn went straight on, and when the sedans finally got it through their heads that Sally wasn\rquote t going to slow down, that she \i couldn\rquote t \i0 slow \expndtw-8 down, it was too late for anything but desperate measures.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8 They broke for it, one to each side, and Sally raced between them like a streak. Steve crashed through the lakeside fence and rolled to a halt on the \expndtw-11 grass and mud not six inches from the water\rquote s edge.  Giuseppe bumped along \expndtw-6 the land side of the road to a shaken halt.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-10 I had Steve back on the highway and was trying to find out what harm, if \expndtw-8 any, the fence had done him, when Gellhorn came back.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9 Gellhorn opened Sally\rquote s door and stepped out. Leaning back, he shut off \expndtw-8 the ignition a second time.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-5\ldblquote There,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote I think I did her a lot of good.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9 I held my temper. \ldblquote Why did you dash through the sedans? There was no \expndtw-7 reason for that.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-5\ldblquote I kept expecting them to turn out.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6\ldblquote They did. One went through a fence.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-5\ldblquote I\rquote m sorry, Jake,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote I thought they\rquote d move more quickly. You know how it is. I\rquote ve been in lots of buses, but I\rquote ve only been in a private \expndtw-10 automatic two or three times in my life, and this is the first time I ever drove \expndtw-8 one. That just shows you, Jake. It got me, driving one, and I\rquote m pretty hard-boiled. I tell you, we don\rquote t have to go more than twenty per cent below list \expndtw-6 price to reach a good market, and it would be ninety per cent profit.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9\ldblquote Which we would split?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8\ldblquote Fifty-fifty. And I take all the risks, remember.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-5\ldblquote All right. I listened to you. Now you listen to me.\rdblquote  I raised my voice \expndtw-10 because I was just too mad to be polite anymore. \ldblquote When you turn off Sally\rquote s \expndtw-9 motor, you hurt her. How would you like to be kicked unconscious? That\rquote s \expndtw-8 what you do to Sally, when you turn her off.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-4\ldblquote You\rquote re exaggerating, Jake. The automatobuses get turned off every \expndtw-9 night.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-11\ldblquote Sure, that\rquote s why I want none of my boys or girls in your fancy \lquote 57 bodies, \expndtw-9 where I won\rquote t know what treatment they\rquote ll get. Buses need major repairs in \expndtw-8 their positronic circuits every couple of years. Old Matthew hasn\rquote t had his \expndtw-1 circuits touched in twenty years. What can you offer him compared with \expndtw-2 that?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-4\ldblquote Well, you\rquote re excited now. Suppose you think over my proposition when \expndtw-1 you\rquote ve cooled down and get in touch with me.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote I\rquote ve thought it over all I want to. If I ever see you again, I\rquote ll call the \expndtw-7 police.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-1 His mouth got hard and ugly. He said, \ldblquote Just a minute, old-timer.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-3 I said, \ldblquote Just a minute, you. This is private property and I\rquote m ordering you \expndtw-9 off.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-2 He shrugged. \ldblquote Well, then, goodbye.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2 I said, \ldblquote Mrs. Hester will see you off the property. Make that goodbye \expndtw-2 permanent.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-2 But it wasn\rquote t permanent. I saw him again two days later. Two and a half \expndtw-5 days, rather, because it was about noon when I saw him first and a little after \expndtw-2 midnight when I saw him again.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-1 I sat up in bed when he turned the light on, blinking blindly till I made \expndtw-2 out what was happening. Once I could see, it didn\rquote t take much explaining. \expndtw0 In fact, it took none at all. He had a gun in his right fist, the nasty little \expndtw-2 needle barrel just visible between two fingers. I knew that all he had to do \expndtw-1 was to increase the pressure of his hand and I would be torn apart. \expndtw0 , He said, \ldblquote Put on your clothes, Jake.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-1 I didn\rquote t move. I just watched him.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-1 He said, \ldblquote Look, Jake, I know the situation. I visited you two days ago, \expndtw-5 remember. You have no guards on this place, no electrified fences, no warn\-\expndtw-3 ing signals. Nothing.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2 I said, \ldblquote I don\rquote t need any. Meanwhile there\rquote s nothing to stop you from \expndtw-5 leaving, Mr. Gellhorn. I would if I were you. This place can be very danger\-\expndtw-6 ous.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-1 He laughed a little. \ldblquote It is, for anyone on the wrong side of a fist gun.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote I see it,\rdblquote  I said. \ldblquote I know you\rquote ve got one.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Then get a move on. My men are waiting.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-5\ldblquote No, sir, Mr. Gellhorn. Not unless you tell me what you want, and proba\-\expndtw0 bly not then.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-2\ldblquote I made you a proposition day before yesterday.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-1\ldblquote The answer\rquote s still no.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote There\rquote s more to the proposition now. I\rquote ve come here with some men \expndtw-5 and an automatobus. You have your chance to come with me and disconnect \expndtw0 twenty-five of the positronic motors. I don\rquote t care which twenty-five you choose. We\rquote ll load them on the bus and take them away. Once they\rquote re \expndtw-1 disposed of, I\rquote ll see to it that you get your fair share of the money.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-1\ldblquote I have your word on that, I suppose.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-3 He didn\rquote t act as if he thought I was being sarcastic. He said, \ldblquote You have.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2 I said, \ldblquote No.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw5\ldblquote If\expndtw0  \expndtw-6 you insist on saying no, we\rquote ll go about it in our own way. I\rquote ll discon\-\expndtw0 nect the motors myself, only I\rquote ll disconnect all fifty-one. Every one of \expndtw-4 them.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-3\ldblquote It isn\rquote t easy to disconnect positronic motors, Mr. Gellhorn. Are you a \expndtw-8 robotics expert? Even if you are, you know, these motors have been modified \expndtw-5 by me.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote I know that, Jake. And to be truthful, I\rquote m not an expert. I may ruin \expndtw-6 quite a few motors trying to get them out. That\rquote s why I\rquote ll have to work over \expndtw-7 all fifty-one if you don\rquote t cooperate. You see, I may only end up with twenty-five when I\rquote m through. The first few I\rquote ll tackle will probably suffer the most. \expndtw-4 Till I get the hang of it, you see. And if I go it myself, I think I\rquote ll put Sally first in line.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-4 I said, \ldblquote I can\rquote t believe you\rquote re serious, Mr. Gellhorn.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-5 He said, \ldblquote I\rquote m serious, Jake.\rdblquote  He let it all dribble in. \ldblquote If you want to help, you can keep Sally. Otherwise, she\rquote s liable to be hurt very badly. Sorry.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6 I said, \ldblquote I\rquote ll come with you, but I\rquote ll give you one more warning. You\rquote ll be \expndtw-4 in trouble, Mr. Gellhorn.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 He thought that was very funny. He was laughing very quietly as we went \expndtw-5 down the stairs together.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-2 There was an automatobus waiting outside the driveway to the garage \expndtw-1 apartments. The shadows of three men waited beside it, and their flash \expndtw-6 beams went on as we approached.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 Gellhorn said in a low voice, \ldblquote I\rquote ve got the old fellow. Come on. Move the \expndtw-2 truck up the drive and let\rquote s get started.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-3 One of the others leaned in and punched the proper instructions on the \expndtw-5 control panel. We moved up the driveway with the bus following submis\-\expndtw-17 sively.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-4\ldblquote It won\rquote t go inside the garage,\rdblquote  I said. \ldblquote The door won\rquote t take it. We don\rquote t \expndtw-5 have buses here. Only private cars.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-4\ldblquote All right,\rdblquote  said Gellhorn. \ldblquote Pull it over onto the grass and keep it out of \expndtw-7 sight.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6 I could hear the thrumming of the cars when we were still ten yards from \expndtw-8 the garage.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-5 Usually they quieted down if I entered the garage. This time they didn\rquote t. \expndtw-6 I think they knew that strangers were about, and once the faces of Gellhorn \expndtw-7 and the others were visible they got noisier. Each motor was a warm rumble, \expndtw-5 and each motor was knocking irregularly until the place rattled.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-3 The lights went up automatically as we stepped inside. Gellhorn didn\rquote t \expndtw-2 seem bothered by the car noise, but the three men with him looked sur\-\expndtw-5 prised and uncomfortable. They had the look of the hired thug about them, \expndtw-7 a look that was not compounded of physical features so much as of a certain \expndtw-1 wariness of eye and hangdogness of face. I knew the type and I wasn\rquote t \expndtw-12 worried.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-4 One of them said, \ldblquote Damn it, they\rquote re burning gas.\rdblquote\expndtw-9\par
\tab  \ldblquote My cars always do,\rdblquote  I replied stiffly.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6\ldblquote Not tonight,\rdblquote  said Gellhorn. \ldblquote Turn them off.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-5\ldblquote It\rquote s not that easy, Mr. Gellhorn,\rdblquote  I said.\par
\tab\expndtw-4\ldblquote Get started!\rdblquote  he said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-5 I stood there. He had his fist gun pointed at me steadily. I said, \ldblquote I told \expndtw-8 you, Mr. Gellhom, that my cars have been well-treated while they\rquote ve been \expndtw-7 at the Farm. They\rquote re used to being treated that way, and they resent any\-\expndtw-8 thing else.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7\ldblquote You have one minute,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote Lecture me some other time.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7\ldblquote I\rquote m trying to explain something. I\rquote m trying to explain that my cars can \expndtw-10 understand what I say to them. A positronic motor will learn to do that with time and patience. My cars have learned. Sally understood your proposition \expndtw-9 two days ago. You\rquote ll remember she laughed when I asked her opinion. She \expndtw-10 also knows what you did to her and so do the two sedans you scattered. And \expndtw-7 the rest know what to do about trespassers in general.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-10\ldblquote Look, you crazy old fool--\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7\ldblquote All I have to say is--\rdblquote  I raised my voice. \ldblquote Get them!\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-3 One of the men turned pasty and yelled, but his voice was drowned \expndtw-8 completely in the sound of fifty-one horns turned loose at once. They held \expndtw-10 their notes, and within the four walls of the garage the echoes rose to a wild, \expndtw-7 metallic call. Two cars rolled forward, not hurriedly, but with no possible \expndtw-8 mistake as to their target. Two cars fell in line behind the first two. All the cars were stirring in their separate stalls.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 The thugs stared, then backed.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6 I shouted, \ldblquote Don\rquote t get up against a wall.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6 Apparently, they had that instinctive thought themselves. They rushed \expndtw-8 madly for the door of the garage.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-5 At the door one of Gellhorn\rquote s men turned, brought up a fist gun of his \expndtw-6 own. The needle pellet tore a thin, blue flash toward the first car. The car \expndtw-13 was Giuseppe.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 A thin line of paint peeled up Giuseppe\rquote s hood, and the right half of his \expndtw-8 windshield crazed and splintered but did not break through.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 The men were out the door, running, and two by two the cars crunched \expndtw-6 out after them into the night, their horns calling the charge.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-3 I kept my hand on Gellhorn\rquote s elbow, but I don\rquote t think he could have \expndtw-9 moved in any case. His lips were trembling.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9 I said, \ldblquote That\rquote s why I don\rquote t need electrified fences or guards. My property \expndtw-8 protects itself.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6 Gellhorn\rquote s eyes swiveled back and forth in fascination as, pair by pair, \expndtw-8 they whizzed by. He said, \ldblquote They\rquote re killers!\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7\ldblquote Don\rquote t be silly. They won\rquote t kill your men.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9\ldblquote They\rquote re killers!\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9\ldblquote They\rquote ll just give your men a lesson. My cars have been specially trained \expndtw-8 for cross-country pursuit for just such an occasion; I think what your men \expndtw-11 will get will be worse than an outright quick kill. Have you ever been chased \expndtw-10 by an automatobile?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9 Gellhorn didn\rquote t answer.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8 I went on. I didn\rquote t want him to miss a thing. \ldblquote They\rquote ll be shadows going \expndtw-9 no faster than your men, chasing them here, blocking them there, blaring at \expndtw-6 them, dashing at them, missing with a screech of brake and a thunder of \expndtw-7 motor. They\rquote ll keep it up till your men drop, out of breath and half-dead, \expndtw-8 waiting for the wheels to crunch over their breaking bones. The cars won\rquote t \expndtw-7 do that. They\rquote ll turn away. You can bet, though, that your men will never \expndtw-6 return here in their lives. Not for all the money you or ten like you could \expndtw-10 give them. Listen--\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 I tightened my hold on his elbow. He strained to hear.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8 I said, \ldblquote Don\rquote t you hear car doors slamming?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8 It was faint and distant, but unmistakable.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9 I said, \ldblquote They\rquote re laughing. They\rquote re enjoying themselves.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9 His face crumpled with rage. He lifted his hand. He was still holding his \expndtw-12 fist gun.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 I said, \ldblquote I wouldn\rquote t. One automatocar is still with us.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9 I don\rquote t think he had noticed Sally till then. She had moved up so quietly. \expndtw-7 Though her right front fender nearly touched me, I couldn\rquote t hear her mo\-\expndtw-8 tor. She might have been holding her breath.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-12 Gellhorn yelled.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9 I said, \ldblquote She won\rquote t touch you, as long as I\rquote m with you. But if you kill me. \expndtw-7 . . . You know, Sally doesn\rquote t like you.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8 Gellhorn turned the gun in Sally\rquote s direction.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7\ldblquote Her motor is shielded,\rdblquote  I said, \ldblquote and before you could ever squeeze the gun a second time she would be on top of you.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7\ldblquote All right, then,\rdblquote  he yelled, and suddenly my arm was bent behind my \expndtw-6 back and twisted so I could hardly stand. He held me between Sally and \expndtw-7 himself, and his pressure didn\rquote t let up. \ldblquote Back out with me and don\rquote t try to break loose, old-timer, or I\rquote ll tear your arm out of its socket.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-11 I had to move. Sally nudged along with us, worried, uncertain what to do. \expndtw-7 I tried to say something to her and couldn\rquote t. I could only clench my teeth \expndtw-12 and moan.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-11 Gellhorn\rquote s automatobus was still standing outside the garage. I was forced \expndtw-8 in. Gellhorn jumped in after me, locking the doors.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8 He said, \ldblquote All right, now. We\rquote ll talk sense.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 I was rubbing my arm, trying to get life back into it, and even as I did I \expndtw-6 was automatically and without any conscious effort studying the control \expndtw-8 board of the bus.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6 I said, \ldblquote This is a rebuilt job.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6\ldblquote So?\rdblquote  he said caustically. \ldblquote It\rquote s a sample of my work. I picked up a dis\expndtw-11 carded chassis, found a brain I could use and spliced me a private bus. What of it?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-12 I tore at the repair panel, forcing it aside.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9 He said, \ldblquote What the hell. Get away from that.\rdblquote  The side of his palm came \expndtw-10 down numbingly on my left shoulder.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 I struggled with him. \ldblquote I don\rquote t want to do this bus any harm. What kind \expndtw-4 of a person do you think I am? I just want to take a look at some of the \expndtw-9 motor connections.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8 It didn\rquote t take much of a look. I was boiling when I turned to him. I said, \expndtw-10\ldblquote You\rquote re a hound and a bastard. You had no right installing this motor your\-\expndtw-7 self. Why didn\rquote t you get a robotics man?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8 He said, \ldblquote Do I look crazy?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7\ldblquote Even if it was a stolen motor, you had no right to treat it so. I wouldn\rquote t \expndtw-9 treat a man the way you treated that motor. Solder, tape, and pinch clamps! \expndtw-6 It\rquote s brutal!\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6\ldblquote It works, doesn\rquote t it?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-2\ldblquote Sure it works, but it must be hell for the bus. You could live with \expndtw-6 migraine headaches and acute arthritis, but it wouldn\rquote t be much of a life. \expndtw-8 This car is \i suffering.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Shut up!\rdblquote  For a moment he glanced out the window at Sally, who had rolled up as close to the bus as she could. He made sure the doors and \expndtw-3 windows were locked.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-2 He said, \ldblquote We\rquote re getting out of here now, before the other cars come back. \expndtw-1 We\rquote ll stay away.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote How will that help you?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-2\ldblquote Your cars will run out of gas someday, won\rquote t they? You haven\rquote t got them \expndtw0 fixed up so they can tank up on their own, have you? We\rquote ll come back and finish the job.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote They\rquote ll be looking for me,\rdblquote  I said. \ldblquote Mrs. Hester will call the police.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 He was past reasoning with. He just punched the bus in gear. It lurched \expndtw-4 forward. Sally followed.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2 He giggled. \ldblquote What can she do if you\rquote re here with me?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-1 Sally seemed to realize that, too. She picked up speed, passed us and was gone. Gellhorn opened the window next to him and spat through the open\-\expndtw-11 ing.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2 The bus lumbered on over the dark road, its motor rattling unevenly. Gellhorn dimmed the periphery light until the phosphorescent green stripe down the middle of the highway, sparkling in the moonlight, was all that \expndtw-2 kept us out of the trees. There was virtually no traffic. Two cars passed ours, \expndtw0 going the other way, and there was none at all on our side of the highway, either before or behind.\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 I heard the door-slamming first. Quick and sharp in the silence, first on the right and then on the left Gellhorn\rquote s hands quivered as he punched savagely for increased speed. A beam of light shot out from among a scrub \expndtw-6 of trees, blinding us; Another beam plunged at us from behind the guard \expndtw-9 rails on the other side. At a crossover, four hundred yards ahead, there was \expndtw-10 sque-e-e-e-e as a car darted across our path.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7\ldblquote Sally went for the rest,\rdblquote  I said. \ldblquote I think you\rquote re surrounded.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7\ldblquote So what? What can they do?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8 He hunched over the controls, peering through the windshield.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7\ldblquote And don\rquote t \i you \i0 try anything, old-timer,\rdblquote  he muttered.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9 I couldn\rquote t. I was bone-weary; my left arm was on fire. The motor sounds \expndtw-8 gathered and grew closer. I could hear the motors missing in odd patterns; suddenly it seemed to me that my cars were speaking to one another.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-4 A medley of horns came from behind. I turned and Gellhom looked \expndtw-11 quickly into the rear-view mirror. A dozen cars were following in both lanes.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-10 Gellhorn yelled and laughed madly.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 I cried, \ldblquote Stop! Stop the car!\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-11 Because not a quarter of a mile ahead, plainly visible in the light beams of \expndtw-9 two sedans on the roadside was Sally, her trim body plunked square across \expndtw-7 the road. Two cars shot into the opposite lane to our left, keeping perfect \expndtw-8 time with us and preventing Gellhom from turning out.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-4 But he had no intention of turning out. He put his finger on the full-\expndtw-7 speed-ahead button and kept it there.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-10 He said, \ldblquote There\rquote ll be no bluffing here. This bus outweighs her five to one, \expndtw-7 old-timer, and we\rquote ll just push her off the road like a dead kitten.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-3 I knew he could. The bus was on manual and his finger was on the \expndtw-8 button. I knew he would.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9 I lowered the window, and stuck my head out. \ldblquote Sally,\rdblquote  I screamed. \ldblquote Get \expndtw-8 out of the way. \i Sally!\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 It was drowned out in the agonized squeal of maltreated brakebands. I \expndtw-11 felt myself thrown forward and heard Gellhorn\rquote s breath puff out of his body.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-5 I said, \ldblquote What happened?\rdblquote  It was a foolish question. We had stopped. \expndtw-8 That was what had happened. Sally and the bus were five feet apart. With \expndtw-9 five times her weight tearing down on her, she had not budged. The guts of \expndtw-17 her.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-2 Gellhorn yanked at the Manual toggle switch. \ldblquote It\rquote s got to,\rdblquote  he kept \expndtw-5 muttering. \ldblquote It\rquote s got to.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-10 I said, \ldblquote Not the way you hooked up the motor, expert. Any of the circuits \expndtw-11 could cross over.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9 He looked at me with a tearing anger and growled deep in his throat. His \expndtw-8 hair was matted over his forehead. He lifted his fist.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7\ldblquote That\rquote s all the advice out of you there\rquote ll ever be, old-timer.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8 And I knew the needle gun was about to fire.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-10 I pressed back against the bus door, watching the fist come up, and when \expndtw-7 the door opened I went over backward and out, hitting the ground with a \expndtw-8 thud. I heard the door slam closed again.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-11 I got to my knees and looked up in time to see Gellhorn struggle uselessly \expndtw-10 with the closing window, then aim his fist-gun quickly through the glass. He \expndtw-7 never fired. The bus got under way with a tremendous roar, and Gellhorn \expndtw-12 lurched backward.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-5 Sally wasn\rquote t in the way any longer, and I watched the bus\rquote s rear lights \expndtw-12 flicker away down the highway.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-10 I was exhausted. I sat down right there, right on the highway, and put my \expndtw-8 head down in my crossed arms, trying to catch my breath.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-4 I heard a car stop gently at my side. When I looked up, it was Sally. \expndtw-11 Slowly--lovingly, you might say--her front door opened.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-12 No one had driven Sally for five years--except Gellhorn, of course--and I \expndtw-11 know how valuable such freedom was to a car. I appreciated the gesture, but \expndtw-6 I said, \ldblquote Thanks, Sally, but I\rquote ll take one of the newer cars.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-4 I got up and turned away, but skillfully and neatly as a pirouette, she \expndtw-5 wheeled before me again. I couldn\rquote t hurt her feelings. I got in. Her front \expndtw-7 seat had the fine, fresh scent of an automatobile that kept itself spotlessly \expndtw-4 clean. I lay down across it, thankfully, and with even, silent, and rapid \expndtw-10 efficiency, my boys and girls brought me home.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9 Mrs. Hester brought me the copy of the radio transcript the next evening \expndtw-8 with great excitement.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6\ldblquote It\rquote s Mr. Gellhorn,\rdblquote  she said. \ldblquote The man who came to see you.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-5\ldblquote What about him?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9 I dreaded her answer.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-4\ldblquote They found him dead,\rdblquote  she said. \ldblquote Imagine that. Just lying dead in a \expndtw-7 ditch.\rdblquote  \expndtw-5 , \ldblquote It might be a stranger altogether,\rdblquote  I mumbled.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-2\ldblquote Raymond J. Gellhorn,\rdblquote  she said, sharply. \ldblquote There can\rquote t be two, can \expndtw-6 there? The description fits, too. Lord, what a way to die! They found tire marks on his arms and body. Imagine! I\rquote m glad it turned out to be a bus; \expndtw-8 otherwise they might have come poking around here.\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8\ldblquote Did it happen near here?\rdblquote  I asked, anxiously.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-8\ldblquote No . . . Near Cooksville. But, goodness, read about it yourself if you-- \expndtw-7 What happened to Giuseppe?\rdblquote\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-11 I welcomed the diversion. Giuseppe was waiting patiently for me to com\-\expndtw-8 plete the repaint job. His windshield had been replaced.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 After she left, I snatched up the transcript. There was no doubt about it. \expndtw-9 The doctor reported he had been running and was in a state of totally spent \expndtw-7 exhaustion. I wondered for how many miles the bus had played with him \expndtw-9 before the final lunge. The transcript had no notion of anything like that, of \expndtw-17 course.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 They had located the bus and identified it by the tire tracks. The police had it and were trying to trace its ownership.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-3 There was an editorial in the transcript about it. It had been the first \expndtw-6 traffic fatality in the state for that year and the paper warned strenuously \expndtw-9 against manual driving after night.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6 There was no mention of Gellhorn\rquote s three thugs and for that, at least, I \expndtw-11 was grateful. None of our cars had been seduced by the pleasure of the chase \expndtw-12 into killing.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-3 That was all. I let the paper drop. Gellhorn had been a criminal. His \expndtw-9 treatment of the bus had been brutal. There was no question in my mind he \expndtw-7 deserved death. But still I felt a bit queasy over the manner of it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6 A month has passed now and I can\rquote t get it out of my mind.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-5 My cars talk to one another. I have no doubt about it anymore. It\rquote s as \expndtw-8 though they\rquote ve gained confidence; as though they\rquote re not bothering to keep \expndtw-9 it secret anymore. Their engines rattle and knock continuously.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6 And they don\rquote t talk among themselves only. They talk to the cars and \expndtw-10 buses that come into the Farm on business. How long have they been doing \expndtw-12 that?\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9 They must be understood, too. Gellhorn\rquote s bus understood them, for all it \expndtw-5 hadn\rquote t been on the grounds more than an hour. I can close my eyes and \expndtw-8 bring back that dash along the highway, with our cars flanking the bus on \expndtw-9 either side, clacking their motors at it till it understood, stopped, let me out, \expndtw-8 and ran off with Gellhorn.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 Did my cars tell him to kill Gellhorn? Or was that his idea?\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7\i Can \i0 cars have such ideas? The motor designers say no. But they mean \expndtw-10 under ordinary conditions. Have they foreseen \i everything!\rquote\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-11 Cars get ill-used, you know.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6 Some of them enter the Farm and observe. They get told things. They \expndtw-9 find out that cars exist whose motors are never stopped, whom no one ever \expndtw-11 drives, whose every need is supplied.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6 Then maybe they go out and tell others. Maybe the word is spreading \expndtw-10 quickly. Maybe they\rquote re going to think that the Farm way should be the way \expndtw-4 all over the world. They don\rquote t understand. You couldn\rquote t expect them to \expndtw-8 understand about legacies and the whims of rich men.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-4 There are millions of automatobiles on Earth, tens of millions. If the \expndtw-8 thought gets rooted in them that they\rquote re slaves; that they should do some\-\expndtw-6 thing about it \expndtw67 ...\expndtw0  \expndtw-6 If they begin to think the way Gellhorn\rquote s bus did. . . .\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-9 Maybe it won\rquote t be till after my time. And then they\rquote ll have to keep a few \expndtw-7 of us to take care of them, won\rquote t they? They wouldn\rquote t kill us all.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-5 And maybe they would. Maybe they wouldn\rquote t understand about how \expndtw-8 someone would have to care for them. Maybe they won\rquote t wait.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-6 Every morning I wake up and think, Maybe today. . . .\cf0\expndtw0\par
\tab\cf2\expndtw-7 I don\rquote t get as much pleasure out of my cars as I used to. Lately, I notice \expndtw-8 that I\rquote m even beginning to avoid Sally.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Someday\par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\tab Niccolo Mazetti lay stomach down on the rug, chin buried in the palm of one small hand, and listened to the Bard disconsolately. There was even the suspicion of tears in his dark eyes, a luxury an eleven-year-old could allow himself only when alone.\par
\tab The Bard said, \ldblquote Once upon a time in the middle of a deep wood, there lived a poor woodcutter and his two motherless daughters, who were each as beautiful as the day is long. The older daughter had long hair as black as a feather from a raven\rquote s wing, but the younger daughter had hair as bright and golden as the sunlight of an autumn afternoon.\par
\tab\ldblquote Many times while the girls were waiting for their father to come home from his day\rquote s work in the wood, the older girl would sit before a mirror and sing--\rdblquote\par
\tab What she sang, Niccolo did not hear, for a call sounded from outside the room: \ldblquote Hey, Nickie.\rdblquote\par
\tab And Niccolo, his face clearing on the moment, rushed to the window and shouted, \ldblquote Hey, Paul.\rdblquote\par
\tab Paul Loeb waved an excited hand. He was thinner than Niccolo and not as tall, for all he was six months older. His face was full of repressed tension which showed itself most clearly in the rapid blinking of his eyelids. \ldblquote Hey, Nickie, let me in. I\rquote ve got an idea and a half. Wait till you hear it.\rdblquote  He looked rapidly about him as though to check on the possibility of eavesdrop\-pers, but the front yard was quite patently empty. He repeated, in a whisper, \ldblquote Wait till you hear it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote All right. I\rquote ll open the door.\rdblquote\par
\tab The Bard continued smoothly, oblivious to the sudden loss of attention on the part of Niccolo. As Paul entered, the Bard was saying. \ldblquote . . . There\-upon, the lion said, \lquote If you will find me the lost egg of the bird which flies over the Ebony Mountain once every ten years, I will--\rquote  \ldblquote\par
\tab Paul said, \ldblquote Is that a Bard you\rquote re listening to? I didn\rquote t know you had one.\rdblquote\par
\tab Niccolo reddened and the look of unhappiness returned to his face. \ldblquote Just an old thing I had when I was a kid. It ain\rquote t much good.\rdblquote  He kicked at the Bard with his foot and caught the somewhat scarred and discolored plastic covering a glancing blow.\par
\tab The Bard hiccupped as its speaking attachment was jarred out of contact a moment, then it went on: \ldblquote --for a year and a day until the iron shoes were worn out. The princess stopped at the side of the road. . . .\rdblquote\par
\tab Paul said, \ldblquote Boy, that is an old model,\rdblquote  and looked at it critically.\par
\tab Despite Niccolo\rquote s own bitterness against the Bard, he winced at the oth\-er\rquote s condescending tone. For the moment, he was sorry he had allowed Paul in, at least before he had restored the Bard to its usual resting place in the basement. It was only in the desperation of a dull day and a fruitless discus\-sion with his father that he had resurrected it. And it turned out to be just as stupid as he had expected.\par
\tab Nickie was a little afraid of Paul anyway, since Paul had special courses at school and everyone said he was going to grow up to be a Computing Engineer.\par
\tab Not that Niccolo himself was doing badly at school. He got adequate marks in logic, binary manipulations, computing and elementary circuits; all the usual grammar-school subjects. But that was it! They were just the usual subjects and he would grow up to be a control-board guard like everyone else.\par
\tab Paul, however, knew mysterious things about what he called electronics and theoretical mathematics and programing. Especially programing. Nic\-colo didn\rquote t even try to understand when Paul bubbled over about it.\par
\tab Paul listened to the Bard for a few minutes and said, \ldblquote You been using it much?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No!\rdblquote  said Niccolo, offended. \ldblquote I\rquote ve had it in the basement since before you moved into the neighborhood. I just got it out today--\rdblquote  He lacked an excuse that seemed adequate to himself, so he concluded, \ldblquote I just got it out.\rdblquote\par
\tab Paul said, \ldblquote Is that what it tells you about: woodcutters and princesses and talking animals?\rdblquote\par
\tab Niccolo said, \ldblquote It\rquote s terrible. My dad says we can\rquote t afford a new one. I said to him this morning--\rdblquote  The memory of the morning\rquote s fruitless pleadings brought Niccolo dangerously near tears, which he repressed in a panic. Somehow, he felt that Paul\rquote s thin cheeks never felt the stain of tears and that Paul would have only contempt for anyone else less strong than himself.\par
\tab Niccolo went on, \ldblquote So I thought I\rquote d try this old thing again, but it\rquote s no good.\rdblquote\par
\tab Paul turned off the Bard, pressed the contact that led to a nearly instanta\-neous reorientation and recombination of the vocabulary, characters, plot lines and climaxes stored within it. Then he reactivated it.\par
\tab The Bard began smoothly, \ldblquote Once upon a time there was a little boy named Willikins whose mother had died and who lived with a stepfather and a stepbrother. Although the stepfather was very well-to-do, he be\-grudged poor Willikins the very bed he slept in so that Willikins was forced to get such rest as he could on a pile of straw in the stable next to the horses--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Horses!\rdblquote  cried Paul.\par
\tab\ldblquote They\rquote re a kind of animal,\rdblquote  said Niccolo. \ldblquote I think.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I know that! I just mean imagine stories about horses.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It tells about horses all the time,\rdblquote  said Niccolo. \ldblquote There are things called cows, too. You milk them but the Bard doesn\rquote t say how.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, gee, why don\rquote t you fix it up?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote d like to know how.\rdblquote\par
\tab The Bard was saying, \ldblquote Often Willikins would think that if only he were rich and powerful, he would show his stepfather and stepbrother what it meant to be cruel to a little boy, so one day he decided to go out into the world and seek his fortune.\rdblquote\par
\tab Paul, who wasn\rquote t listening to the Bard, said, \ldblquote It\rquote s easy. The Bard has memory cylinders all fixed up for plot lines and climaxes and things. We don\rquote t have to worry about that. It\rquote s just vocabulary we\rquote ve got to fix so it\rquote ll know about computers and automation and electronics and real things about today. Then it can tell interesting stories, you know, instead of about prin\-cesses and things.\rdblquote\par
\tab Niccolo said despondently, \ldblquote I wish we could do that.\rdblquote\par
\tab Paul said, \ldblquote Listen, my dad says if I get into special computing school next year, he\rquote ll get me a real Bard, a late model. A big one with an attachment for space stories and mysteries. And a visual attachment, too!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You mean see the stories?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Sure. Mr. Daugherty at school says they\rquote ve got things like that, now, but not for just everybody. Only if I get into computing school, Dad can get a few breaks.\rdblquote\par
\tab Niccolo\rquote s eyes bulged with envy. \ldblquote Gee. Seeing a story.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You can come over and watch anytime, Nickie.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, boy. Thanks.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s all right. But remember, I\rquote m the guy who says what kind of story we hear.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Sure. Sure.\rdblquote  Niccolo would have agreed readily to much more onerous conditions.\par
\tab Paul\rquote s attention returned to the Bard.\par
\tab It was saying, \ldblquote  \lquote If that is the case,\rquote  said the king, stroking his beard and frowning till clouds filled the sky and lightning flashed, \lquote you w\rquote\rdblquote  see to it that my entire land is freed of flies by this time day after tomorrow or--\rquote  \ldblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote All we\rquote ve got to do,\rdblquote  said Paul, \ldblquote is open it up--\rdblquote  He shut the Bard off again and was prying at its front panel as he spoke.\par
\tab\ldblquote Hey,\rdblquote  said Niccolo, in sudden alarm. \ldblquote Don\rquote t break it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I won\rquote t break it,\rdblquote  said Paul impatiently. \ldblquote I know all about these things.\rdblquote  Then, with sudden caution, \ldblquote Your father and mother home?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote All right, then.\rdblquote  He had the front panel off and peered in. \ldblquote Boy, this is a one-cylinder thing.\rdblquote\par
\tab He worked away at the Bard\rquote s innards. Niccolo, who watched with pain\-ful suspense, could not make out what he was doing.\par
\tab Paul pulled out a thin, flexible metal strip, powdered with dots. \ldblquote That\rquote s the Bard\rquote s memory cylinder. I\rquote ll bet its capacity for stories is under a tril\-lion.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What are you going to do, Paul?\rdblquote  quavered Niccolo.\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ll give it vocabulary.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote How?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Easy. I\rquote ve got a book here. Mr. Daugherty gave it to me at school.\rdblquote\par
\tab Paul pulled the book out of his pocket and pried at it till he had its plastic jacket off. He unreeled the tape a bit, ran it through the vocalizer, which he turned down to a whisper, then placed it within the Bard\rquote s vitals. He made further attachments.\par
\tab\ldblquote What\rquote ll that do?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The book will talk and the Bard will put it all on its memory tape.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What good will that do?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Boy, you\rquote re a dope! This book is all about computers and automation and the Bard will get all that information. Then he can stop talking about kings making lightning when they frown.\rdblquote\par
\tab Niccolo said, \ldblquote And the good guy always wins anyway. There\rquote s no excite\-ment.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, well,\rdblquote  said Paul, watching to see if his setup was working properly, \ldblquote that\rquote s the way they make Bards. They got to have the good guy win and make the bad guys lose and things like that. I heard my father talking about it once. He says that without censorship there\rquote d be no telling what the younger generation would come to. He says it\rquote s bad enough as it is. ... There, it\rquote s working fine.\rdblquote\par
\tab Paul brushed his hands against one another and turned away from the Bard. He said, \ldblquote But listen, I didn\rquote t tell you my idea yet. It\rquote s the best thing you ever heard, I bet. I came right to you, because I figured you\rquote d come in with me.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Sure, Paul, sure.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Okay. You know Mr. Daugherty at school? You know what a funny kind of guy he is. Well, he likes me, kind of.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I know.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I was over at his house after school today.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You were?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Sure. He says I\rquote m going to be entering computer school and he wants to encourage me and things like that. He says the world needs more people who can design advanced computer circuits and do proper programing.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh?\rdblquote\par
\tab Paul might have caught some of the emptiness behind that monosyllable. He said impatiently, \ldblquote Programing! I told you a hundred times. That\rquote s when you set up problems for the giant computers like Multivac to work on. Mr. Daugherty says it gets harder all the time to find people who can really run computers. He says anyone can keep an eye on the controls and check off answers and put through routine problems. He says the trick is to expand research and figure out ways to ask the right questions, and that\rquote s hard.\par
\tab\ldblquote Anyway, Nickie, he took me to his place and showed me his collection of old computers. It\rquote s kind of a hobby of his to collect old computers. He had tiny computers you had to push with your hand, with little knobs all over it. And he had a hunk of wood he called a slide rule with a little piece of it that went in and out. And some wires with balls on them. He even had a hunk of paper with a kind of thing he called a multiplication table.\rdblquote\par
\tab Niccolo, who found himself only moderately interested, said, \ldblquote A paper table?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It wasn\rquote t really a table like you eat on. It was different. It was to help people compute. Mr. Daugherty tried to explain but he didn\rquote t have much time and it was kind of complicated, anyway.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why didn\rquote t people just use a computer?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That was before they had computers,\rdblquote  cried Paul.\par
\tab\ldblquote Before?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Sure. Do you think people always had computers? Didn\rquote t you ever hear of cavemen?\rdblquote\par
\tab Niccolo said, \ldblquote How\rquote d they get along without computers?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t know. Mr. Daugherty says they just had children any old time and did anything that came into their heads whether it would be good for everybody or not. They didn\rquote t even know if it was good or not. And farmers grew things with their hands and people had to do all the work in the factories and run all the machines.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t believe you.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s what Mr. Daugherty said. He said it was just plain messy and everyone was miserable. . . . Anyway, let me get to my idea, will you?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, go ahead. Who\rquote s stopping you?\rdblquote  said Niccolo, offended.\par
\tab\ldblquote All right. Well, the hand computers, the ones with the knobs, had little squiggles on each knob. And the slide rule had squiggles on it. And the multiplication table was all squiggles. I asked what they were. Mr. Daugh\-erty said they were numbers.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Each different squiggle stood for a different number. For \lquote one\rquote  you made a kind of mark, for \lquote two\rquote  you make another kind of mark, for \lquote three\rquote  another one and so on.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What for?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote So you could compute.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What for? You just tell the computer--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Jiminy,\rdblquote  cried Paul, his face twisting with anger, \ldblquote can\rquote t you get it through your head? These slide rules and things didn\rquote t talk.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then how--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The answers showed up in squiggles and you had to know what the squiggles meant. Mr. Daugherty says that, in olden days, everybody learned how to make squiggles when they were kids and how to decode them, too. Making squiggles was called \lquote writing\rquote  and decoding them was \lquote reading.\rquote  He says there was a different kind of squiggle for every word and they used to write whole books in squiggles. He said they had some at the museum and I could look at them if I wanted to. He said if I was going to be a real computer and programer I would have to know about the history of comput\-ing and that\rquote s why he was showing me all these things.\rdblquote\par
\tab Niccolo frowned. He said, \ldblquote You mean everybody had to figure out squig\-gles for every word and remember them? ... Is this all real or are you making it up?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s all real. Honest. Look, this is the way you make a \lquote one.\rquote  \ldblquote  He drew his finger through the air in a rapid downstroke. \ldblquote This way you make \lquote two,\rquote  and this way \lquote three.\rquote  I learned all the numbers up to \lquote nine.\rquote  \ldblquote\par
\tab Niccolo watched the curving finger uncomprehendingly. \ldblquote What\rquote s the good of it?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You can learn how to make words. I asked Mr. Daugherty how you made the squiggle for \lquote Paul Loeb\rquote  but he didn\rquote t know. He said there were people at the museum who would know. He said there were people who had learned how to decode whole books. He said computers could be designed to decode books and used to be used that way but not any more because we have real books now, with magnetic tapes that go through the vocalizer and come out talking, you know.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Sure.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote So if we go down to the museum, we can get to learn how to make words in squiggles. They\rquote ll let us because I\rquote m going to computer school.\rdblquote\par
\tab Niccolo was riddled with disappointment. \ldblquote Is that your idea? Holy Smokes, Paul, who wants to do that? Make stupid squiggles!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Don\rquote t you get it? Don\rquote t you get it? You dope. It\rquote ll be secret message stuff!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Sure. What good is talking when everyone can understand you? With squiggles you can send secret messages. You can make them on paper and nobody in the world would know what you were saying unless they knew the squiggles, too. And they wouldn\rquote t, you bet, unless we taught them. We can have a real club, with initiations and rules and a clubhouse. Boy--\rdblquote\par
\tab A certain excitement began stirring in Niccolo\rquote s bosom. \ldblquote What kind of secret messages?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Any kind. Say I want to tell you to come over my place and watch my new Visual Bard and I don\rquote t want any of the other fellows to come. I make the right squiggles on paper and I give it to you and you look at it and you know what to do. Nobody else does. You can even show it to them and they wouldn\rquote t know a thing.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Hey, that\rquote s something,\rdblquote  yelled Niccolo, completely won over. \ldblquote When do we learn how?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Tomorrow,\rdblquote  said Paul. \ldblquote I\rquote ll get Mr. Daugherty to explain to the mu\-seum that it\rquote s all right and you get your mother and father to say okay. We can go down right after school and start learning.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Sure!\rdblquote  cried Niccolo. \ldblquote We can be club officers.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ll be president of the club,\rdblquote  said Paul matter-of-factly. \ldblquote You can be vice-president.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote All right. Hey, this is going to be tots more fun than the Bard.\rdblquote  He was suddenly reminded of the Bard and said in sudden apprehension, \ldblquote Hey, what about my old Bard?\rdblquote\par
\tab Paul turned to look at it. It was quietly taking in the slowly unreeling book, and the sound of the book\rquote s vocalizations was a dimly heard murmur.\par
\tab He said, \ldblquote I\rquote ll disconnect it.\rdblquote\par
\tab He worked away while Niccolo watched anxiously. After a few moments, Paul put his reassembled book into his pocket, replaced the Bard\rquote s panel and activated it.\par
\tab The Bard said, \ldblquote Once upon a time, in a large city, there lived a poor young boy named Fair Johnnie whose only friend in the world was a small computer. The computer, each morning, would tell the boy whether it would rain that day and answer any problems he might have. It was never wrong. But it so happened that one day, the king of that land, having heard of the little computer, decided that he would have it as his own. With this purpose in mind, he called in his Grand Vizier and said--\rdblquote\par
\tab Niccolo turned off the Bard with a quick motion of his hand. \ldblquote Same old junk,\rdblquote  he said passionately, \ldblquote just with a computer thrown in.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  said Paul, \ldblquote they got so much stuff on the tape already that the computer business doesn\rquote t show up much when random combinations are made. What\rquote s the difference, anyway? You just need a new model.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We\rquote ll never be able to afford one. Just this dirty old miserable thing.\rdblquote  He kicked at it again, hitting it more squarely this time. The Bard moved backward with a squeal of castors.\par
\tab\ldblquote You can always watch mine, when I get it,\rdblquote  said Paul. \ldblquote Besides, don\rquote t forget our squiggle club.\rdblquote\par
\tab Niccolo nodded.\par
\tab\ldblquote I tell you what,\rdblquote  said Paul. \ldblquote Let\rquote s go over to my place. My father has some books about old times. We can listen to them and maybe get some ideas. You leave a note for your folks and maybe you can stay over for supper. Come on.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Okay,\rdblquote  said Niccolo, and the two boys ran out together. Niccolo, in his eagerness, ran almost squarely into the Bard, but he only rubbed at the spot on his hip where he had made contact and ran on.\par
\tab The activation signal of the Bard glowed. Niccolo\rquote s collision closed a circuit and, although it was alone in the room and there was none to hear, it began a story, nevertheless.\par
\tab But not in its usual voice, somehow; in a lower tone that had a hint of throatiness in it. An adult, listening, might almost have thought that the voice carried a hint of passion in it, a trace of near feeling.\par
\tab The Bard said: \ldblquote Once upon a time, there was a little computer named the Bard who lived all alone with cruel step-people. The cruel step-people con\-tinually made fun of the little computer and sneered at him, telling him he was good-for-nothing and that he was a useless object. They struck him and kept him in lonely rooms for months at a time.\par
\tab\ldblquote Yet through it all the little computer remained brave. He always did the best he could, obeying all orders cheerfully. Nevertheless, the step-people with whom he lived remained cruel and heartless.\par
\tab\ldblquote One day, the little computer learned that in the world there existed a great many computers of all sorts, great numbers of them. Some were Bards like himself, but some ran factories, and some ran farms. Some organized population and some analyzed all kinds of data. Many were very powerful and very wise, much more powerful and wise than the step-people who were so cruel to the little computer.\par
\tab\ldblquote And the little computer knew then that computers would always grow wiser and more powerful until someday--someday--someday--\rdblquote\par
\tab But a valve must finally have stuck in the Bard\rquote s aging and corroding vitals, for as it waited alone in the darkening room through the evening, it could only whisper over and over again, \ldblquote Someday--someday--someday.\rdblquote\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\b\i\f2\fs28\page Some Immobile Robots\par
\pard\b0\i0\f0\fs20\par
\tab I have written stories about computers, as well as about roots.  In fact, I have computers (or something pretty close to computers) in some stories that are always thought of as robot stories.  You\rquote ll see computers (after a fashion) in \ldblquote Robbie,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Escape!\rdblquote  and \ldblquote The Evitable Conflict\rdblquote  later in this volume.\par
\tab In this volume, however, I am sticking to robots and, in general, ignoring my computer stories.\par
\tab On the other hand, it is not always easy to decide where the dividing line is.  A robot is, in some ways, merely a mobile robot.  So for this group, I selected three computer stories in which the computer seemed to be sufficiently intelligent and to have sufficient personality to be indistinguishable from a robot.  Furthermore, all three stories did not appear in earlier collections of mine, and Doubleday wanted \i some\i0  uncollected stories present so that the completists who had all my earlier collections would have \i something\i0  new to slaver over.\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Point of View \par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\tab Roger came looking for his father, partly because it was Sunday, and by rights his father shouldn\rquote t have been at work, and Roger wanted to be sure that everything was all right. \par
\tab Roger\rquote s father wasn\rquote t hard to find, because all the people who worked with Multivac, the giant computer, lived with their families right on the grounds. They made up a little city by themselves, a city of people that solved all the world\rquote s problems. \par
\tab The Sunday receptionist knew Roger. \ldblquote If you\rquote re after your father,\rdblquote  she said, \ldblquote he\rquote s down Corridor L, but he may be too busy to see you. Roger tried anyway, poking his head past one of the doors where he heard the noise of men and women. The corridors were a lot emptier than on weekdays, so it was easy to find where the people were working. \par
\tab He saw his father at once, and his father saw him. His father didn\rquote t look happy and Roger decided at once that everything wasn\rquote t all right. \par
\tab\ldblquote Well, Roger,\rdblquote  said his father. \ldblquote I\rquote m busy, I\rquote m afraid.\rdblquote  Roger\rquote s father\rquote s boss was there, too, and he said, \ldblquote Come on, Atkins, take a break. You\rquote ve been at this thing for nine hours and you\rquote re not doing us any good anymore. Take the kid for a bite at the commissary. Take a nap and then come back.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Roger\rquote s father didn\rquote t look as if he wanted to. He had an instrument in his hand that Roger knew was a current-pattern analyzer, though he didn\rquote t know how it worked. Roger could hear Multivac chuckling and whirring all about. \par
\tab But then Roger\rquote s father put down the analyzer. \ldblquote Okay. Come on, Roger. I\rquote ll race you for a hamburger and we\rquote ll let these wise guys here try and find out what\rquote s wrong without me.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He stopped a while to wash up and then they were in the commissary with big hamburgers in front of them and french fries and soda pop. \par
\tab Roger said, \ldblquote Is Multivac out of order still, Dad?\rdblquote  His father said gloomily, \ldblquote We\rquote re not getting anywhere, I\rquote ll tell you that.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It seemed to be working. I mean, I could hear it.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, sure, it\rquote s working. It just doesn\rquote t always give the right answers.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Roger was thirteen and he\rquote d been taking computer-programming since the fourth grade. He hated it sometimes and wished he lived back in the 20th Century, when kids didn\rquote t use to take it--but it was helpful sometimes in talking to his father. \par
\tab Roger said, \ldblquote How can you tell it doesn\rquote t always give the right answers, if only Multivac knows the answers?\rdblquote  \par
\tab His father shrugged and for a minute Roger was afraid he would just say it was too hard to explain and not talk about it--but he almost never did that. \par
\tab His father said, \ldblquote Son, Multivac may have a brain as large as a big factory, but it still isn\rquote t as complicated as the one we have here,\rdblquote  and he tapped his head. \ldblquote Sometimes, Multivac gives us an answer we couldn\rquote t calculate for ourselves in a thousand years, but just the same something clicks in our brains and we say, \lquote Whoa! Something\rquote s wrong here!\rquote  Then we ask Multivac again and we get a \i different \i0 answer. If Multivac were right, you see, we should always get the same answer to the same question. When we get different answers, one of them is wrong. \par
\tab\ldblquote  And the thing is, son, how do we know we always catch Multivac? How do we know that some of the wrong answers don\rquote t get past us? We may rely on some answer and do something that may turn out disastrously five years from now. Something\rquote s wrong inside Multivac and we can\rquote t find out what. And whatever is wrong is getting worse.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Why should it be getting worse?\rdblquote\lquote  asked Roger. His father had finished his hamburger and was eating the french fries one by one. \ldblquote My feeling is. Son,\rquote  he said, thoughtfully, \ldblquote that we\rquote ve made Multivac the wrong smartness.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Huh?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You see, Roger, if Multivac were as smart as a man, we could talk to it and find out what was wrong no matter how complicated it was. If it were as dumb as a machine, it would go wrong in simple ways that we could catch easily. The trouble is, it\rquote s \i half-smart, \i0 like an idiot. It\rquote s smart enough to go wrong in very complicated ways, but not smart enough to help \i us \i0 find out what\rquote s wrong.--And that\rquote s the wrong smartness.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He looked very gloomy. \ldblquote But what can we do? We don\rquote t know how to make it smarter--not yet. And we don\rquote t dare make it dumber either, because the world\rquote s problems have become so serious and the questions we ask are so complicated that it takes all Multivac\rquote s smartness to answer them. It would be a disaster to have him dumber.\rquote\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote If you shut down Multivac,\rdblquote  said Roger, \ldblquote and went over him really carefully--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We can\rquote t do that, son,\rdblquote  said his father. \ldblquote I\rquote m afraid Multivac must be in operation every minute of the day and night. We\rquote ve got a big back-log of problems.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But if Multivac continues to make mistakes. Dad, won\rquote t it \i have \i0 to be shut down? If you can\rquote t trust what it says--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  Roger\rquote s father ruffled Roger\rquote s hair, \ldblquote we\rquote ll find out what\rquote s wrong, old sport, don\rquote t worry.\rdblquote  But his eyes looked worried just the same. \ldblquote Come on, let\rquote s finish and we\rquote ll get out of here.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But Dad,\rdblquote  said Roger, \ldblquote listen. If Multivac is half-smart, why does that mean it\rquote s an idiot?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote If you knew the way we have to give it directions, son, you wouldn\rquote t ask.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Just the same, Dad, maybe it\rquote s not the way to look at it. I\rquote m not as smart as you; I don\rquote t know as much; but \i I\rquote m \i0 not an idiot. Maybe Multivac isn\rquote t like an idiot, maybe it\rquote s like a kid.\rdblquote\par
\tab Roger\rquote s father laughed. \ldblquote That\rquote s an interesting point of view, but what difference does it make?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It could make a lot of difference,\rdblquote  said Roger. \ldblquote You\rquote re not an idiot, so you don\rquote t see how an idiot\rquote s mind would work; but I\rquote m a kid, and maybe I would know how a kid\rquote s mind would work.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh? And how would a kid\rquote s mind work?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well, you say you\rquote ve got to keep Multivac busy day and night. A machine can do that. But if you give a kid homework and told him to do it for hours and hours, he\rquote d get pretty tired and feel rotten enough to make mistakes, maybe even on purpose.--So why not let Multivac take an hour or two off every day with no problem-solving--just letting it chuckle and whir by itself any way it wants to.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Roger\rquote s father looked as if he were thinking very hard. He took out his pocket-computer and tried some combinations on it. He tried some more combinations. Then he said, \ldblquote You know, Roger, if I take what you said and turn it into Platt-integrals, it makes a kind of sense. And twenty-two hours we can be sure of is better than twenty-four that might be all wrong.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He nodded his head, but then he looked up from his pocket-computer and suddenly asked, as though Roger were the expert, \ldblquote Roger, are you sure?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Roger was sure. He said, \ldblquote Dad, a kid\rquote s got to \i play\i0 , too.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Think! \par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\tab Genevieve Renshaw, M.D., had her hands deep in the pockets of her lab coat and fists were clearly outlined within, but she spoke calmly. \par
\tab\ldblquote The fact is,\rdblquote  she said, \ldblquote that I\rquote m almost ready, but I\rquote ll need help to keep it going long enough to \i be \i0 ready.\rdblquote  \par
\tab James Berkowitz, a physicist who tended to patronize mere physicians when they were too attractive to be despised, had a tendency to call her Jenny Wren when out of hearing. He was fond of saying that Jenny Wren had a classic profile and a brow surprisingly smooth and unlined considering that behind it so keen a brain ticked. He knew better than to express his admiration, however--of the classic profile, that is--since that would be male chauvinism. Admiring the brain was better, but on the whole he preferred not to do that out loud in her presence. \par
\tab He said, thumb rasping along the just-appearing stubble on his chin, \ldblquote I don\rquote t think the front-office is going to be patient for much longer. The impression I have is that they\rquote re going to have you on the carpet before the end of the week.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s why I need your help.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Nothing I can do, I\rquote m afraid.\rdblquote  He caught an unexpected glimpse of his face in the mirror, and momentarily admired the set of the black waves in his hair. \par
\tab\ldblquote  And Adam\rquote s,\rdblquote  she said. \par
\tab Adam Orsino, who had, till that moment, sipped his coffee and felt detached, looked as though he had been jabbed from behind, and said, \ldblquote Why me?\rdblquote  His full, plump lips quivered. \par
\tab\ldblquote Because you\rquote re the laser men here--Jim the theoretician and Adam the engineer--and I\rquote ve got a laser application that goes beyond anything either of you have imagined. I won\rquote t convince them of that but you two would.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Provided,\rdblquote  said Berkowitz, \ldblquote that you can convince us first.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote All right. Suppose you let me have an hour of your valuable time, if you\rquote re not afraid to be shown something completely new about lasers.--You can take it out of your coffee break.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab Renshaw\rquote s laboratory was dominated by her computer. It was not that the computer was unusually large, but it was virtually omni-present. Renshaw had learned computer technology on her own, and had modified and extended her computer until no one but she (and, Berkowitz sometimes believed, not even she) could handle it with ease. Not bad, she would say, for someone in the life-sciences. \par
\tab She closed the door before saying a word, then turned to face the other two somberly. Berkowitz was uncomfortably aware of a faintly unpleasant odor in the air, and Orsino\rquote s wrinkling nose showed that he was aware of it, too. \par
\tab Renshaw said, \ldblquote Let me list the laser applications for you, if you don\rquote t mind my lighting a candle in the sunshine. The laser is coherent radiation, with all the light-waves of the same length and moving in the same direction, so it\rquote s noise-free and can be used in holography. By modulating the wave-forms we can imprint information on it with a high degree of accuracy. What\rquote s more, since the light-waves are only a millionth the length of radio waves, a laser beam can carry a million times the information an equivalent radio beam can.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Berkowitz seemed amused. \ldblquote  Are you working on a laser-based communication system, Jenny?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Not at all,\rdblquote  she replied. \ldblquote I leave such obvious advances to physicists and engineers.--Lasers can also concentrate quantities of energy into a microscopic area and deliver that energy in quantity. On a large scale you can implode hydrogen and perhaps begin a controlled fusion reaction--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I know you don\rquote t have that,\rdblquote  said Orsino, his bald head glistening in the overhead fluorescents. \par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t. I haven\rquote t tried.--On a smaller scale, you can drill holes in the most refractory materials, weld selected bits, heat-treat them, gouge and scribe them. You can remove or fuse tiny portions in restricted areas with heat delivered so rapidly that surrounding areas have no time to warm up before the treatment is over. You can work on the retina of the eye, the dentine of the teeth and so on.--And of course the laser is an amplifier capable of magnifying weak signals with great accuracy.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote  And why do you tell us all this?\rdblquote  said Berkowitz. \par
\tab\ldblquote To point out how these properties can be made to fit my own field, which, you know, is neurophysiology.\rdblquote  \par
\tab She made a brushing motion with her hand at her brown hair, as though she were suddenly nervous. \ldblquote For decades,\rdblquote  she said, \ldblquote We\rquote ve been able to measure the tiny, shifting electric potentials of the brain and record them as electroencephalograms, or EEGs. We\rquote ve got alpha waves, beta waves, delta waves, theta waves; different variations at different times, depending on whether eyes are open or closed, whether the subject is awake, meditating or asleep. But we\rquote ve gotten very little information out of it all. \par
\tab\ldblquote The trouble is that we\rquote re getting the signals of ten billion neurons in shifting combinations. It\rquote s like listening to the noise of all the human beings on Earth--one, two and a half Earths--from a great distance and trying to make out individual conversations. It can\rquote t be done. We could detect some gross, overall change--a world war and the rise in the volume of noise--but nothing finer. In the same way, we can tell some gross malfunction of the brain--epilepsy--but nothing finer. \par
\tab\ldblquote Suppose now, the brain might be scanned by a tiny laser beam, cell by cell, and so rapidly that at no time does a single cell receive enough energy to raise its temperature significantly. The tiny potentials of each cell can, in feed-back, affect the laser beam, and the modulations can be amplified and recorded. You will then get a new kind of measurement, a laser-encephalogram, or LEG, if you wish, which will contain millions of times as much information as ordinary EEGs.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Berkowitz said, \ldblquote A nice thought.--But just a thought.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote More than a thought, Jim. I\rquote ve been working on it for five years, spare time at first. Lately, it\rquote s been full time, which is what annoys the front-office, because I haven\rquote t been sending in reports.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Why not?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Because it got to the point where it sounded too mad; where I had to know where I was, and where I had to be sure of getting backing first.\rdblquote  \par
\tab She pulled a screen aside and revealed a cage that contained a pair of mournful-eyed marmosets. \par
\tab Berkowitz and Orsino looked at each other. Berkowitz touched his nose. \ldblquote I thought I smelled something.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What are you doing with those?\rdblquote  asked Orsino. Berkowitz said, \ldblquote  At a guess, she\rquote s been scanning the marmoset brain. Have you, Jenny?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I started considerably lower in the animal scale.\rdblquote  She opened the cage and took out one of the marmosets, which looked at her with a miniature sad-old-man-with-sideburns expression. \par
\tab She clucked to it, stroked it and gently strapped it into a small harness. \par
\tab Orsino said, \ldblquote What are you doing?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I can\rquote t have it moving around if I\rquote m going to make it part of a circuit, and I can\rquote t anesthetize it without vitiating the experiment. There are several electrodes implanted in the marmoset\rquote s brain and I\rquote m going to connect them with my LEG system. The laser I\rquote m using is here. I\rquote m sure you recognize the model and I won\rquote t bother giving you its specifications.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Thanks,\rdblquote  said Berkowitz, \ldblquote but you might tell us what we\rquote re going to see.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It would be just as easy to show you. Just watch the screen.\rdblquote  She connected the leads to the electrodes with a quiet and sure efficiency, then turned a knob that dimmed the overhead lights in the room. On the screen there appeared a jagged complex of peaks and valleys in a fine, bright line that was wrinkled into secondary and tertiary peaks and valleys. Slowly, these shifted in a series of minor changes, with occasional flashes of sudden major differences. It was as though the irregular line had a life of its own. \par
\tab\ldblquote This,\rdblquote  said Renshaw, \ldblquote is essentially the EEG information, but in much greater detail.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Enough detail,\rdblquote  asked Orsino, \ldblquote to tell you what\rquote s going on in individual cells?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote In theory, yes. Practically, no. Not yet. But we can separate this overall LEG into component grams. Watch!\rdblquote  \par
\tab She punched the computer keyboard, and the line changed, and changed again. Now it was a small, nearly regular wave that shifted forward and backward in what was almost a heartbeat; now it was jagged and sharp; now intermittent; now nearly featureless--all in quick switches of geometric surrealism. \par
\tab Berkowitz said, \ldblquote You mean that every bit of the brain is that different from every other?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  said Renshaw, \ldblquote not at all. The brain is very largely a holographic device, but there are minor shifts in emphasis from place to place and Mike can subtract them as deviations from the norm and use the LEG system to amplify those variations. The amplifications can be varied from ten-thousand-fold to ten-million-fold. The laser system is that noise-free.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Who\rquote s Mike?\rdblquote  asked Orsino. \par
\tab\ldblquote Mike?\rdblquote  said Renshaw, momentarily puzzled. The skin over her cheekbones reddened slightly. \ldblquote Did I say--Well, I call it that sometimes. It\rquote s short for \lquote my computer.\rquote  \ldblquote  She waved her arm about the room. \ldblquote My computer. Mike. Very carefully programmed.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Berkowitz nodded and said, \ldblquote All right, Jenny, what\rquote s it all about? If you\rquote ve got a new brain-scanning device using lasers, fine. It\rquote s an interesting application and you\rquote re right, it\rquote s not one I would have thought of--but then I\rquote m no neurophysiologist. But why not write it up? It seems to me the front-office would support--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But this is just the beginning.\rdblquote  She turned off the scanning device and placed a piece of fruit in the marmoset\rquote s mouth. The creature did not seem alarmed or in discomfort. It chewed slowly. Renshaw unhooked the leads but allowed it to remain in its harness. \par
\tab Renshaw said, \ldblquote I can identify the various separate grams. Some are associated with the various senses, some with visceral reactions, some with emotions. We can do a lot with that, but I don\rquote t want to stop there. The interesting thing is that one is associated with abstract thought.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Orsino\rquote s plump face wrinkled into a look of disbelief, \ldblquote How can you tell?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That particular form of gram gets more pronounced as one goes up the animal kingdom toward greater complexity of brain. No other gram does. Besides--\rdblquote  She paused; then, as though gathering strength of purpose, she said, \ldblquote Those grams are enormously amplified. They can be picked up, detected. I can tell--vaguely--that there are--thoughts--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote By God,\rdblquote  said Berkowitz. \ldblquote Telepathy.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  she said, defiantly. \ldblquote Exactly.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No wonder you haven\rquote t wanted to report it. Come \i on, \i0 Jenny.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Why not?\rdblquote  said Renshaw warmly. \ldblquote Granted there could be no telepathy just using the unamplified potential patterns of the human brain anymore than anyone can see features on the Martian surface with the unaided eye. But once instruments are invented--the telescope\i --this.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\i0\ldblquote Then tell the front-office.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  said Renshaw. \ldblquote They won\rquote t believe me. They\rquote ll try to stop me. But they\rquote ll have to take \i you \i0 seriously, Jim, and you, Adam.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What would you expect me to tell them?\rdblquote  said Berkowitz. \par
\tab\ldblquote What you experience. I\rquote m going to hook up the marmoset again, and have Mike--my computer pick out the abstract thought gram. It will only take a moment. The computer always selects the abstract thought gram unless it is directed not to do so.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Why? Because the computer thinks, too?\rdblquote  Berkowitz laughed. \ldblquote That\rquote s not all that funny,\rdblquote  said Renshaw. \ldblquote I suspect there \i is \i0 a resonance there. This computer is complex enough to set up an electromagnetic pattern that may have elements in common with the abstract thought gram. In any case--\rdblquote  \par
\tab The marmoset\rquote s brain waves were flickering on the screen again, but it was not a gram the men had seen before. It was a gram that was almost furry in its complexity and was changing constantly. \par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t detect anything,\rdblquote  said Orsino. \par
\tab\ldblquote You have to be put into the receiving circuit,\rdblquote  said Renshaw. \ldblquote You mean implant electrodes in our brain?\rdblquote  asked Berkowitz. \par
\tab\ldblquote No, on your skull. That would be sufficient. I\rquote d prefer you, Adam, since there would be no insulating hair.--Oh, come on, I\rquote ve been part of the circuit myself. It won\rquote t hurt.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Orsino submitted with a bad grace. His muscles were visibly tense but he allowed the leads to be strapped to his skull. \par
\tab\ldblquote Do you sense anything!\rdblquote  asked Renshaw. \par
\tab Orsino cocked his head and assumed a listening posture. He seemed to grow interested in spite of himself. He said, \ldblquote I seem to be aware of a humming--and--and a little high-pitched squeaking--and that\rquote s funny--a kind of twitching--\rdblquote  \par
\tab Berkowitz said, \ldblquote I suppose the marmoset isn\rquote t likely to think in words.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Certainly not,\rdblquote  said Renshaw. \par
\tab\ldblquote Well, then,\rdblquote  said Berkowitz, \ldblquote if you\rquote re suggesting that some squeaking and twitching sensation represents thought, you\rquote re guessing. You\rquote re not being compelling.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Renshaw said, \ldblquote So we go up the scale once again.\rdblquote  She removed the marmoset from its harness and put it back in its cage. \par
\tab\ldblquote You mean you have a \i man \i0 as a subject,\rdblquote  said Orsino, unbelieving. \par
\tab\ldblquote I have \i myself \i0 as a subject, a \i person.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\i0\ldblquote You\rquote ve got electrodes implanted--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No. In my case my computer has a stronger potential-flicker to work with. My brain has ten times the mass of the marmoset brain. Mike can pick up my component grams through the skull.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote How do you know?\rdblquote  asked Berkowitz. \par
\tab\ldblquote Don\rquote t you think I\rquote ve tried it on myself before this?--Now help me with this, please. Right.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Her fingers flicked on the computer keyboard and at once the screen flickered with an intricately varying wave; an intricacy that made it almost a maze. \par
\tab\ldblquote Would you replace your own leads, Adam?\rdblquote  said Renshaw. \par
\tab Orsino did so with Berkowitz\rquote s not-entirely-approving help. Again, Orsino cocked his head and listened. \ldblquote I hear words,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote but they\rquote re disjointed and overlapping, like different people speaking.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m not trying to think consciously,\rdblquote  said Renshaw. \ldblquote When you talk, I hear an echo.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Berkowitz said, dryly, \ldblquote Don\rquote t talk, Jenny. Blank out your mind and see if he \i doesn\rquote t \i0 hear you think.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Orsino said, \ldblquote I don\rquote t hear any echo when \i you \i0 talk, Jim.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Berkowitz said, \ldblquote If you don\rquote t shut up, you won\rquote t hear anything.\rdblquote  \par
\tab A heavy silence fell on all three. Then, Orsino nodded, reached for pen and paper on the desk and wrote something. \par
\tab Renshaw reached out, threw a switch and pulled the leads up and over her head, shaking her hair back into place. She said, \ldblquote 1 hope that what you wrote down was: \lquote  Adam, raise Cain with the front office and Jim will eat crow.\rquote  \ldblquote  \par
\tab Orsino said, \ldblquote It\rquote s what I wrote down, word for word.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Renshaw said, \ldblquote Well, there you are. Working telepathy, and we don\rquote t have to use it to transmit nonsense sentences either. Think of the use in psychiatry and in the treatment of mental disease. Think of its use in education and in teaching machines. Think of its use in legal investigations and criminal trials.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Orsino said, wide-eyed, \ldblquote Frankly, the social implications are staggering. I don\rquote t know if something like this should be allowed.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Under proper legal safeguards, why not?\rdblquote  said Renshaw, indifferently. \ldblquote Anyway--if you two join me now, our combined weight can carry this thing and push it over. And if you come along with me it will be Nobel Prize time for--\rdblquote  \par
\tab Berkowitz said grimly, \ldblquote I\rquote m not in this. Not yet.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What? What do you mean?\rdblquote  Renshaw sounded outraged, her coldly beautiful face flushed suddenly. \par
\tab\ldblquote Telepathy is too touchy. It\rquote s too fascinating, too desired. We could be fooling ourselves.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Listen for yourself, Jim.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I could be fooling myself, too. I want a control.\rdblquote  \ldblquote What do you mean, a control?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Short-circuit the origin of thought. Leave out the animal. No marmoset. No human being. Let Orsino listen to metal and glass and laser light and if he still hears thought, then we\rquote re kidding ourselves.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Suppose he detects nothing.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Then \i I\rquote ll \i0 listen and if without looking--if you can arrange to have me in the next room--I can tell when you are in and when you are out of circuit, \i then \i0 I\rquote ll consider joining you in this thing.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Very well, then,\rdblquote  said Renshaw, \ldblquote we\rquote ll try a control. I\rquote ve never done it, but it isn\rquote t hard.\rdblquote  She maneuvered the leads that had been over her head and put them into contact with each other. \ldblquote Now, Adam, if you will resume--\rdblquote  \par
\tab But before she could go further, there came a cold, clear sound, as pure and as clean as the tinkle of breaking icicles: \par
\tab\ldblquote At \i last!\rdblquote  \par
\tab\i0 Renshaw said, \ldblquote What?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Orsino said, \ldblquote Who said--\rdblquote  \par
\tab Berkowitz said, \ldblquote Did someone say, \ldblquote At last\rquote ?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Renshaw, pale, said, \ldblquote It wasn\rquote t sound. It was in my--Did you two--\rdblquote  \par
\tab The clear sound came again, \i\ldblquote I\rquote m Mi--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\i0 And Renshaw tore the leads apart and there was silence. She said with a voiceless motion of her lips, \ldblquote I think it\rquote s my computer--Mike.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\i\ldblquote You \i0 mean he\rquote s \i thinking?\rdblquote  \i0 said Orsino, nearly as voiceless. Renshaw said in an unrecognizable voice that at least had regained sound, \ldblquote I \i said \i0 it was complex enough to have something--Do you suppose--It always turned automatically to the abstract-thought gram of whatever brain was in its circuit. Do you suppose that with no brain in the circuit, it turned to its own?\rdblquote  \par
\tab There was silence, then Berkowitz said, \ldblquote  Are you trying to say that this computer thinks, but can\rquote t express its thoughts as long as it\rquote s under force of programming, but that given the chance in your LEG system--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But that can\rquote t be so?\rdblquote  said Orsino, high-pitched. \ldblquote No one was receiving. It\rquote s not the same thing.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Renshaw said, \ldblquote The computer works on much greater power-intensities than brains do. I suppose it can magnify itself to the point where we can detect it directly without artificial aid. How else can you explain--\rdblquote  \par
\tab Berkowitz said, abruptly, \ldblquote Well, you have another application of lasers, then. It enables you to talk to computers as independent intelligences, person to person.\rdblquote  \par
\tab And Renshaw said, \ldblquote Oh, God, what do we do now?\rdblquote  \par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page True Love \par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\tab My name is Joe. That is what my colleague, Milton Davidson, calls me. He is a programmer and I am a computer program. I am part of the Multivac-complex and am connected with other parts all over the world. I know everything. Almost everything. \par
\tab I am Milton\rquote s private program. His Joe. He understands more about programming than anyone in the world, and I am his experimental model. He has made me speak better than any other computer can. \par
\tab\ldblquote It is just a matter of matching sounds to symbols, Joe,\rdblquote  he told me. \ldblquote That\rquote s the way it works in the human brain even though we still don\rquote t know what symbols there are in the brain. I know the symbols in yours, and I can match them to words, one-to-one.\rdblquote  So I talk. I don\rquote t think I talk as well as I think, but Milton says I talk very well. Milton has never married, though he is nearly forty years old. He has never found the right woman, he told me. One day he said, \ldblquote I\rquote ll find her yet, Joe. I\rquote m going to find the best. I\rquote m going to have true love and you\rquote re going to help me. I\rquote m tired of improving you in order to solve the problems of the world. Solve \i my \i0 problem. Find me true love.\rdblquote  \par
\tab I said, \ldblquote What is true love?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Never mind. That is abstract. Just find me the ideal girl. You are connected to the Multivac-complex so you can reach the data banks of every human being in the world. We\rquote ll eliminate them all by groups and classes until we\rquote re left with only one person. The perfect person. She will be for me.\rdblquote  \par
\tab I said, \ldblquote I am ready.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He said, \ldblquote Eliminate all men first.\rdblquote  \par
\tab It was easy. His words activated symbols in my molecular valves. I could reach out to make contact with the accumulated data on every human being in the world. At his words, I withdrew from 3,784,982,874 men. I kept contact with 3,786,112,090 women. \par
\tab He said, \ldblquote Eliminate an younger than twenty-five; an older than forty. Then eliminate an with an IQ under 120; an with a height under 150 centimeters and over 175 centimeters.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He gave me exact measurements; he eliminated women with living children; he eliminated women with various genetic characteristics. \ldblquote I\rquote m not sure about eye color,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote Let that go for a while. But no red hair. I don\rquote t like red hair.\rdblquote  \par
\tab After two weeks, we were down to 235 women. They all spoke English very well. Milton said he didn\rquote t want a language problem. Even computer-translation would get in the way at intimate moments. \par
\tab\ldblquote I can\rquote t interview 235 women,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote It would take too much time, and people would discover what I am doing.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It would make trouble,\rdblquote  I said. \par
\tab Milton had arranged me to do things I wasn\rquote t designed to do. No one knew about that. \ldblquote It\rquote s none of their business,\rdblquote  he said, and the skin on his face grew red. \ldblquote I tell you what, Joe, I will bring in holographs, and you check the list for similarities.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He brought in holographs of women. \ldblquote These are three beauty contest winners,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote Do any of the 235 match?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Eight were very good matches and Milton said, \ldblquote Good, you have their data banks. Study requirements and needs in the job market and arrange to have them assigned here. One at a time, of course.\rdblquote  He thought a while, moved his shoulders up and down, and said, \ldblquote Alphabetical order.\rdblquote  \par
\tab That is one of the things I am not designed to do. Shifting people from job to job for personal reasons is called manipulation. I could do it now because Milton had arranged it. I wasn\rquote t supposed to do it for anyone but him, though. \par
\tab The first girl arrived a week later. Milton\rquote s face turned red when he saw her. He spoke as though it were hard to do so. They were together a great deal and he paid no attention to me. One time he said, \ldblquote Let me take you to dinner.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The next day he said to me, \ldblquote It was no good, somehow. There was something missing. She is a beautiful woman, but I did not feel any touch of true love. Try the next one.\rdblquote  \par
\tab It was the same with all eight. They were much alike. They smiled a great deal and had pleasant voices, but Milton always found it wasn\rquote t right. He said, \ldblquote I can\rquote t understand it, Joe. You and I have picked out the eight women who, in all the world, look the best to me. They are ideal. Why don\rquote t they please me?\rdblquote  \par
\tab I said, \ldblquote Do you please them?\rdblquote  \par
\tab His eyebrows moved and he pushed one fist hard against his other hand. \ldblquote That\rquote s it, Joe. It\rquote s a two-way street. If I am not their ideal, they can\rquote t act in such a way as to be my ideal. I must be their true love, too, but how do I do that?\rdblquote  He seemed to be thinking all that day. \par
\tab The next morning he came to me and said, \ldblquote I\rquote m going to leave it to you, Joe. All up to you. You have my data bank, and I am going to tell you everything I know about myself. You fill up my data bank in every possible detail but keep all additions to yourself.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What will I do with the data bank, then, Milton?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Then you will match it to the 235 women. No, 227. Leave out the eight you\rquote ve seen. Arrange to have each undergo a psychiatric examination. Fill up their data banks and compare them with mine. Find correlations.\rdblquote  (Arranging psychiatric examinations is another thing that is against my original instructions.) \par
\tab For weeks, Milton talked to me. He told me of his parents and his siblings. He told me of his childhood and his schooling and his adolescence. He told me of the young women he had admired from a distance. His data bank grew and he adjusted me to broaden and deepen my symbol-taking. \par
\tab He said, \ldblquote You see, Joe, as you get more and more of me in you, I adjust you to match me better and better. You get to think more like me, so you understand me better. If you understand me well enough, then any woman, whose data bank is something you understand as well, would be my true love.\rdblquote  He kept talking to me and I came to understand him better and better. \par
\tab I could make longer sentences and my expressions grew more complicated. My speech began to sound a good deal like his in vocabulary, word order and style. \par
\tab I said to him one time, \ldblquote You see, Milton, it isn\rquote t a matter of fitting a girl to a physical ideal only. You need a girl who is a personal, emotional, temperamental fit to you. If that happens, looks are secondary. If we can\rquote t find the fit in these 227, we\rquote ll look elsewhere. We will find someone who won\rquote t care how you look either, or how anyone would look, if only there is the personality fit. What are looks?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Absolutely,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote I would have known this if I had had more to do with women in my life. Of course, thinking about it makes it all plain now.\rdblquote  \par
\tab We always agreed; we thought so like each other. \par
\tab\ldblquote We shouldn\rquote t have any trouble, now, Milton, if you\rquote ll let me ask you questions. I can see where, in your data bank, there are blank spots and unevennesses.\rdblquote  \par
\tab What followed, Milton said, was the equivalent of a careful psychoanalysis. Of course, I was learning from the psychiatric examinations of the 227 women--on all of which I was keeping close tabs. \par
\tab Milton seemed quite happy. He said, \ldblquote Talking to you, Joe, is almost like talking to another self. Our personalities have come to match perfectly.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote So will the personality of the woman we choose.\rdblquote  \par
\tab For I had found her and she was one of the 227 after all. Her name was Charity Jones and she was an Evaluator at the Library of History in Wichita. Her extended data bank fit ours perfectly. All the other women had fallen into discard in one respect or another as the data banks grew fuller, but with Charity there was increasing and astonishing resonance. \par
\tab I didn\rquote t have to describe her to Milton. Milton had coordinated my symbolism so closely with his own I could tell the resonance directly. It fit me. \par
\tab Next it was a matter of adjusting the work sheets and job requirements in such a way as to get Charity assigned to us. It must be done very delicately, so no one would know that anything illegal had taken place. \par
\tab Of course, Milton himself knew, since it was he who arranged it and that had to be taken care of too. When they came to arrest him on grounds of malfeasance in office, it was, fortunately, for something that had taken place ten years ago. He had told me about it, of course, so it was easy to arrange--and he won\rquote t talk about me for that would make his offense much worse. \par
\par
\tab He\rquote s gone, and tomorrow is February 14, Valentine\rquote s Day. Charity will arrive then with her cool hands and her sweet voice. I will teach her how to operate me and how to care for me. What do looks matter when our personalities will resonate? \par
\tab I will say to her, \ldblquote I am Joe, and you are my true love.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\b\i\f2\fs28\page Some Metallic Robots \par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\tab\i0 The traditional science fiction robot is metallic. Why not? Most machines are built out of metal, and, as a matter of fact, real-life industrial robots are metal, too. For the record, however, one famous robot in legend, the Golem, which was brought to life by Rabbi Low of Prague in the Middle Ages, was formed of clay. This legend was influenced, perhaps, by the fact that God had formed Adam of clay as described in the second chapter of Genesis. \par
\tab This section contains \ldblquote Robbie,\rdblquote  my first robot story. It also contains \ldblquote Stranger in Paradise,\rdblquote  which may leave you wondering after you\rquote re through most of it where the robot is. Be patient!\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Robot AL-76 Goes Astray \par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\tab Jonathan Quell\rquote s eyes crinkled worriedly behind their rimless glasses as he charged through the door labeled \ldblquote General Manager.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He slapped the folded paper in his hands upon the desk and panted, \ldblquote Look at that, boss!\rdblquote  \par
\tab Sam Tobe juggled the cigar in his mouth from one cheek to the other, and looked. His hand went to his unshaven jaw and rasped along it. \ldblquote Hell!\rdblquote  he exploded. \ldblquote What are they talking about?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote They say we sent out five AL robots,\rdblquote  Quell explained, quite unnecessarily. \par
\tab\ldblquote We sent six,\rdblquote  said Tobe. \par
\tab\ldblquote Sure, six! But they only got five at the other end. They sent out the serial numbers and \i AL-76 \i0 is missing.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Tobe\rquote s chair went over backward as he heaved his thick bulk upright and went through the door as if he were on greased wheels. It was five hours after that--with the plant pulled apart from assembly rooms to vacuum chambers; with every one of the plant\rquote s two hundred employees put through the third-degree mill--that a sweating, disheveled Tobe sent an emergency message to the central plant at Schenectady. \par
\tab And at the central plant, a sudden explosion of near panic took place. For the first time in the history of the United States Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation, a robot had escaped to the outer world. It wasn\rquote t so much that the law forbade the presence of any robot on Earth outside a licensed factory of the corporation. Laws could always be squared. What was much more to the point was the statement made by one of the research mathematicians. \par
\tab He said: \ldblquote That robot was created to run a Disinto on the moon. Its positronic brain was equipped for a lunar environment, and \i only \i0 a lunar environment. On Earth it\rquote s going to receive seventy-five umptillion sense impressions for which it was never prepared. There\rquote s no telling \i what \i0 its reactions will be. No telling!\rdblquote  And he wiped a forehead that had suddenly gone wet, with the back of his hand. \par
\tab Within the hour a stratoplane had left for the Virginia plant. The instructions were simple. \par
\tab\ldblquote Get that robot, and get it fast!\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab AL-76 was confused! In fact, confusion was the only impression his delicate positronic brain retained. It had started when he had found himself in these strange surroundings. How it had come about, he no longer knew. Everything was mixed up. \par
\tab There was green underfoot, and brown shafts rose all about him with more green on top. And the sky was blue where it should have been black. The sun was all right, round and yellow and hot--but where was the powdery pumice rock underfoot; where were the huge clifflike crater rings? \par
\tab There was only the green below and the blue above. The sounds that surrounded him were all strange. He had passed through running water that had reached his waist. It was blue and cold and wet. And when he passed people, as he did, occasionally, they were without the space suits they should have been wearing. When they saw him, they shouted and ran. \par
\tab One man had leveled a gun at him and the bullet had whistled past his head--and then that man had run too. \par
\tab He had no idea of how long he had been wandering before he finally stumbled upon Randolph Payne\rquote s shack two miles out in the woods from the town of Hannaford. Randolph Payne himself--a screwdriver in one hand, a pipe in the other and a battered ruin of a vacuum cleaner between his knees--squatted outside the doorway. \par
\tab Payne was humming at the time, for he was a naturally happy-go-lucky soul--when at his shack. He had a more respectable dwelling place back in Hannaford, but \i that \i0 dwelling place was pretty largely occupied by his wife, a fact which he silently but sincerely regretted. Perhaps, then, there was a sense of relief and freedom at such times as he found himself able to retire to his \ldblquote special deluxe doghouse\rdblquote  where he could smoke in peace and attend to his hobby of reservicing household appliances. \par
\tab It\b  \b0 wasn\rquote t much of a hobby, but sometimes someone would bring out a radio or an alarm clock and the money he would get paid for juggling its insides was the only money he ever got that didn\rquote t pass in driblets through his spouse\rquote s niggardly hands. \par
\tab This vacuum cleaner, for instance, would bring in an easy six bits. At the thought he broke into song, raised his eyes, and broke into \par
\tab a sweat. The song choked off, the eyes popped, and the sweat became more intense. He tried to stand up--as a preliminary to running like hell--but he couldn\rquote t get his legs to cooperate. \par
\tab And then AL-76 had squatted down next to him and said, \ldblquote Say, why did all the rest of them run?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Payne knew quite well why they all ran, but the gurgle that issued from his diaphragm didn\rquote t show it. He tried to inch away from the robot. \par
\tab AL-76 continued in an aggrieved tone, \ldblquote One of them even took a shot at me. An inch lower and he would have scratched my shoulder plate.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote M-must have b-been a nut,\rdblquote  stammered Payne. \par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s possible.\rdblquote  The robot\rquote s voice grew more confidential. \ldblquote Listen, what\rquote s wrong with everything?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Payne looked hurriedly about. It\b  \b0 had struck him that the robot spoke in a remarkably mild tone for one so heavily and brutally metallic in appearance. It also struck him that he had heard somewhere that robots were mentally incapable of harming human beings. He relaxed a bit. \par
\tab\ldblquote There\rquote s nothing wrong with anything.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Isn\rquote t there?\rdblquote  AL-76 eyed him accusingly. \i\ldblquote You\rquote re \i0 all wrong. Where\rquote s your space suit?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I haven\rquote t got any.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Then why aren\rquote t you dead?\rdblquote  \par
\tab That stopped Payne, \ldblquote Well--I don\rquote t know.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote See!\rdblquote  said the robot triumphantly, \ldblquote there\rquote s something wrong with everything. Where\rquote s Mount Copernicus? Where\rquote s Lunar station 17? And where\rquote s my Disinto? I want to get to work, I do.\rdblquote  He seemed perturbed, and his voice shook as he continued. \ldblquote I\rquote ve been going about for hours trying to get someone to tell me where my Disinto is, but they all run away. By now I\rquote m probably \lquote way behind schedule and the Sectional Executive will be as sore as blazes. This is a fine situation.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Slowly Payne unscrambled the stew in which his brain found itself and said, \ldblquote Listen, what do they call you?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote My serial number is AL-76.\rdblquote\i  \par
\tab\i0 All right, Al is good enough for me. Now, Al, if you\rquote re looking for Lunar Station 17, that\rquote s on the moon, see?\rdblquote  \par
\tab AL-76 nodded his head ponderously. \ldblquote Sure. But I\rquote ve been looking for it--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But it\rquote s on the moon. This isn\rquote t the moon.\rdblquote  \par
\tab It was the robot\rquote s turn to become confused. He watched Payne for a speculative moment and then said slowly, \ldblquote What do you mean this isn\rquote t the moon? Of course it\rquote s the moon. Because if it isn\rquote t the moon, what is it, huh? Answer me that.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Payne made a funny sound in his throat and breathed hard. He pointed a finger at the robot and shook it. \ldblquote Look,\rdblquote  he said--and then the brilliant idea of the century struck him, and he finished with a strangled \ldblquote Wow!\rdblquote  \par
\tab AL-76 eyed him censoriously. \ldblquote That isn\rquote t an answer. I think I have a right to a civil answer if I ask a civil question.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Payne wasn\rquote t listening. He was still marveling at himself. Why, it was as plain as day. This robot was one built for the moon that had somehow gotten loose on Earth. Naturally it would be all mixed up, because its positronic brain had been geared exclusively for a lunar environment, making its earthly surroundings entirely meaningless. \par
\tab And now if he could only keep the robot here--until he could get in touch with the men at the factory in Petersboro. Why, robots were worth money. The cheapest cost $50,000, he had once heard, and some of them ran into millions. Think of the reward!\par
\tab Man, oh, man, \i think of the reward! \i0 And every cent for himself. Not as much as a quarter of a snifter of a plugged nickel for Mirandy. Jumpin\rquote  tootin\rquote  blazes, \i no!\par
\tab\i0  He rose to his feet at last. \ldblquote Al,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote you and I are buddies! Pals! I love you like a brother.\rdblquote  He thrust out a hand. \ldblquote Shake!\rdblquote  \par
\tab The robot swallowed up the offered hand in a metal paw and squeezed it gently. He didn\rquote t quite understand. \ldblquote Does that mean you\rquote ll tell me how to get to Lunar Station 17?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Payne was a trifle disconcerted. .\rquote N-no, not exactly. As a matter of fact, I like you so much, I want you to stay here with me awhile.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Oh no, I can\rquote t do that. I\rquote ve got to get to work.\rdblquote  He shook his head. \ldblquote How would you like to be falling behind your quota hour by hour and minute by minute? I want to work. I\rquote ve \i got \i0 to work.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Payne thought sourly that there was no accounting for tastes, and said, \ldblquote All right, then, I\rquote ll explain something to you--because I can see from the looks of you that you\rquote re an intelligent person. I\rquote ve had orders from your Sectional Executive, and he wants me to keep you here for a while. Till he sends for you, in fact.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What for?\rdblquote  asked AL-76 suspiciously. \par
\tab\ldblquote I can\rquote t say. It\rquote s secret government stuff.\rdblquote  Payne prayed, inwardly and fervently, that the robot would swallow this. Some robots were clever, he knew, but this looked like one of the early models. \par
\tab While Payne prayed, AL-76 considered. The robot\rquote s brain, adjusted to the handling of a Disinto on the moon, was not at its best when engaged in abstract thought, but just the same, ever since he had gotten lost, AL-76 had found his thought processes becoming stranger. The alien surroundings did something to him. \par
\tab His next remark was almost shrewd. He said slyly, \ldblquote What\rquote s my Sectional Executive\rquote s name?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Payne gulped and thought rapidly. \ldblquote  Al,\rdblquote  he said in a pained fashion, \ldblquote you hurt me with this suspicion. I \i can\rquote t \i0 tell you his name. The trees have ears.\rdblquote  \par
\tab AL-76 inspected the tree next to him stolidly and said, \ldblquote They have not.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I know. What I mean is that spies are all around.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Spies?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes. You know, \i bad \i0 people who want to destroy Lunar Station 17.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What for?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Because they\rquote re \i bad. \i0 And they want to destroy \i you, \i0 and that\rquote s why you\rquote ve got to stay here for a while, so they can\rquote t find you.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But--but I\rquote ve got to have a Disinto. I mustn\rquote t fall behind my quota.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You will have. You will have,\rdblquote  Payne promised earnestly, and just as earnestly damned the robot\rquote s one-track mind. \ldblquote They\rquote re going to send one out tomorrow. Yeah, tomorrow.\rdblquote  That would leave plenty of time to get the men from the factory out here and collect beautiful green heaps of hundred-dollar bills. \par
\tab But AL-76 grew only the more stubborn under the distressing impingement of the strange world all about him upon his thinking mechanism. \par
\tab\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote I\rquote ve got to have a Disinto now.\rdblquote  Stiffly he straightened his joints, jerking erect. \ldblquote I\rquote d better look for it some more.\rdblquote\par
\tab Payne swarmed after and grabbed a cold, hard elbow. \ldblquote Listen,\rdblquote  he squealed. \ldblquote You\rquote ve got to stay--\rdblquote\par
\tab And something in the robot\rquote s mind clicked. All the strangeness surrounding him collected itself into one globule. Exploded, and left a brain ticking with a curiously increased efficiency. He whirled on Payne. \ldblquote I tell you what. I can build a Disinto right here--and then I can work it.\rdblquote\par
\tab Payne paused doubtfully. \ldblquote I don\rquote t think I can build one.\rdblquote  He wondered if it would do any good to pretend he could. \par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s all right.\rdblquote  AL-76 could almost feel the positronic paths of his brain weaving into a new pattern, and experienced a strange exhilaration. \i\ldblquote I \i0 can build one.\rdblquote  He looked into Payne\rquote s deluxe doghouse and said. \ldblquote You\rquote ve got all the material here that I need.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Randolph Payne surveyed the junk with which his shack was filled: eviscerated radios, a topless refrigerator, rusty automobile engines, a broken-down gas range, several miles of frayed wire, and, taking it all together, fifty tons or thereabouts of the most heterogeneous mass of old metal as ever caused a junkman to sniff disdainfully. \par
\tab\ldblquote Have I?\rdblquote  he said weakly. \par
\par
\tab Two hours later, two things happened practically simultaneously. The first was that Sam Tobe of the Petersboro branch of the United States Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation received a visiphone call from one Randolph Payne of Hannaford. It concerned the missing robot, and Tobe, with a deep-throated snarl, broke connection halfway through and ordered all subsequent calls to be rerouted to the sixth assistant vice-president in charge of buttonholes. \par
\tab This was not really unreasonable of Tobe. During the past week, although Robot AL-76 had dropped from sight completely, reports had flooded in from all over the Union as to the robot\rquote s whereabouts. As many as fourteen a day came--usually from fourteen different states. \par
\tab Tobe was almighty tired of it, to say nothing of being half crazy on general principles. There was even talk of a Congressional investigation, though every reputable roboticist and mathematical physicist on Earth swore the robot was harmless. \par
\par
\tab In his state of mind, then, it is not surprising that it took three hours for the general manager to pause and consider just exactly how it was that this Randolph Payne had known that the robot was slated for Lunar Station 17, and, for that matter, how he had known that the robot\rquote s serial number was AL-76. Those details had not been given out by the company. \par
\tab He kept on considering for about a minute and a half and then swung into action. \par
\tab However, during the three hours between the call and the action, the second event took place. Randolph Payne, having correctly diagnosed the abrupt break in his call as being due to general skepticism on the part of the plant official, returned to his shack with a camera. They couldn\rquote t very well argue with a photograph, and he\rquote d be hornswoggled if he\rquote d show them the real thing before they came across with the cash. \par
\tab AL-76 was busy with affairs of his own. Half of the contents of Payne\rquote s shack was littered over about two acres of ground, and in the middle of it the robot squatted and fooled around with radio tubes, hunks of iron, copper wire, and general junk. He paid no attention to Payne, who, sprawling flat on his belly, focused his camera for a beautiful shot. \par
\tab And at this point it was that Lemuel Oliver Cooper turned the bend in the road and froze in his tracks as he took in the tableau. The reason for his coming in the first place was an ailing electric toaster that had developed the annoying habit of throwing out pieces of bread forcefully, but thoroughly untoasted. The reason for his \i leaving \i0 was more obvious. He had come with a slow, mildly cheerful, spring-morning saunter. He left with a speed that would have caused any college track coach to raise his eyebrows and purse his lips approvingly. \par
\tab There was no appreciable slackening of speed until Cooper hurtled into Sheriff Saunders\rquote  office, minus hat and toaster, and brought himself up hard against the wall. \par
\tab Kindly hands lifted him, and for half a minute he tried speaking before he had actually calmed down to the point of breathing with, of course, no result. \par
\tab They gave him whisky and fanned him and when he did speak, it came out something like this: \ldblquote --monster--seven feet tall--shack all busted up--poor Rannie Payne--\rdblquote  and so on. \par
\tab They got the story out of him gradually: how there was a huge metal monster, seven feet tall, maybe even eight or nine, out at Randolph Payne\rquote s shack; how Randolph Payne himself was on his stomach, a \ldblquote poor, bleeding, mangled corpse\rdblquote ; how the monster was then busily engaged in wrecking the shack out of sheer destructiveness; how it had turned on Lemuel Oliver Cooper, and how he, Cooper, had made his escape by half a hair. \par
\tab Sheriff Saunders hitched his belt tighter about his portly middle and said, \ldblquote It\rquote s that there machine man that got away from the Petersboro factory. We got warning on it last Saturday. Hey, Jake, you get every man in Hannaford County that can shoot and slap a deputy\rquote s badge on him. Get them here at noon. And listen, Jake, before you do that, just drop in at the Widow Payne\rquote s place and lip her the bad news gentle-like.\rdblquote  \par
\tab It is reported that Miranda Payne, upon being acquainted with events, paused only to make sure that her husband\rquote s insurance policy was safe, and to make a few pithy remarks concerning her foolishness in not having had him take out double the amount, before breaking out into as prolonged and heart-wringing a wail of grief as ever became a respectable widow. \par
\par
\tab It was some hours later that Randolph Payne--unaware of his horrible mutilation and death--viewed the completed negatives of his snapshots with satisfaction. As a series of portraits of a robot at work, they left nothing to the imagination. They might have been labeled: \ldblquote Robot Gazing Thoughtfully at Vacuum Tube,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Robot Splicing Two Wires,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Robot Wielding Screwdriver,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Robot Taking Refrigerator Apart with Great Violence,\rdblquote  and so on. \par
\tab As there now remained only the routine of making the prints themselves, he stepped out from beyond the curtain of the improvised darkroom for a bit of a smoke and a chat with AL-76. \par
\tab In doing so, he was blissfully unaware that the neighboring woods were verminous with nervous farmers armed with anything from an old colonial relic of a blunderbuss to the portable machine gun carried by the sheriff himself. Nor, for that matter, had he any inkling of the fact that half a dozen roboticists, under the leadership of Sam Tobe, were smoking down the highway from Petersboro at better than a hundred and twenty miles an hour for the sole purpose of having the pleasure and honor of his acquaintance. \par
\tab So while things were jittering toward a climax, Randolph Payne sighed with self-satisfaction, lighted a match upon the seat of his pants, puffed away at his pipe, and looked at AL-76 with amusement. \par
\tab It had been apparent for quite some time that the robot was more than slightly lunatic. Randolph Payne was himself an expert at homemade contraptions, having built several that could not have been exposed to daylight without searing the eyeballs of all beholders; but he had never even conceived of anything approaching the monstrosity that AL-76 was concocting. \par
\tab It would have made the Rube Goldbergs of the day die in convulsions of envy. It would have made Picasso (if he could have lived to witness it) quit art in the sheer knowledge that he had been hopelessly surpassed. It would have soured the milk in the udders of any cow within half a mile. \par
\tab In fact, it was gruesome! \par
\tab From a rusty and massive iron base that faintly resembled something Payne had once seen attached to a secondhand tractor, it rose upward in rakish, drunken swerves through a bewildering mess of wires, wheels, tubes, and nameless horrors without number, ending in a megaphone arrangement that looked decidedly sinister. \par
\tab Payne had the impulse to peek in the megaphone part, but refrained. He had seen far more sensible machines explode suddenly and with violence. \par
\tab He said, \ldblquote Hey, Al.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The robot looked up. He had been lying flat on his stomach, teasing a thin sliver of metal into place. \ldblquote What do you want, Payne?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What is this?\rdblquote  He asked it in the tone of one referring to something foul and decomposing, held gingerly between two ten-foot poles. \par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s the Disinto I\rquote m making--so I can start to work. It\rquote s an improvement on the standard model.\rdblquote  The robot rose, dusted his knees clankingly, and looked at it proudly. \par
\tab Payne shuddered. An \ldblquote improvement\rdblquote ! No wonder they hid the original in caverns on the moon. Poor satellite! Poor dead satellite! He had always wanted to know what a fate worse than death was. Now he knew. \par
\tab\ldblquote Will it work?\rdblquote  he asked. \ldblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Sure.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote How do you know?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s got to. I made it, didn\rquote t I? I only need one thing now. Got a flashlight?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Somewhere, I guess.\rdblquote  Payne vanished into the shack and returned almost immediately. \par
\tab The robot unscrewed the bottom and set to work. In five minutes he had finished. He stepped back and said, \ldblquote All set. Now I get to work. You may watch if you want to.\rdblquote  \par
\tab A pause, while Payne tried to appreciate the magnanimity of the offer. \ldblquote Is it safe?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote A baby could handle it.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Oh!\rdblquote  Payne grinned weakly and got behind the thickest tree in the vicinity. \ldblquote Go ahead,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote I have the utmost confidence in you.\rdblquote  \par
\tab AL-76 pointed to the nightmarish junk pile and said, \ldblquote Watch!\rdblquote  His hands set to work--\par
\par
\tab The embattled farmers of Hannaford County, Virginia, weaved up upon Payne\rquote s shack in a slowly tightening circle. With the blood of their heroic colonial forebears pounding their veins--and goose flesh trickling up and down their spines--they crept from tree to tree. \par
\tab Sheriff Saunders spread the word. \ldblquote Fire when I give the signal--and aim at the eyes.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Jacob Linker--Lank Jake to his friends, and Sheriff\rquote s Deputy to himself--edged close. \ldblquote You think maybe this machine man has skedaddled?\rdblquote  He did not quite manage to suppress the tone of wistful hopefulness in his voice. \par
\tab\ldblquote Dunno,\rdblquote  grunted the sheriff. \ldblquote Guess not, though. We woulda come across him in the woods if he had, and we haven\rquote t.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But it\rquote s awful quiet, and it appears to me as if we\rquote re getting close to Payne\rquote s place.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The reminder wasn\rquote t necessary. Sheriff Saunders had a lump in his throat so big it had to be swallowed in three installments. \ldblquote Get back,\rdblquote  he ordered, \ldblquote and keep your finger on the trigger.\rdblquote  \par
\tab They were at the rim of the clearing now, and Sheriff Saunders closed his eyes and stuck the corner of one out from behind the tree. Seeing nothing, he paused, then tried again, eyes open this time. \par
\tab Results were, naturally, better. \par
\tab To be exact, he saw one huge machine man, back toward him, bending over one soul-curdling, hiccupy Contraption of uncertain origin and less certain purpose. The only item he missed was the quivering figure of Randolph Payne, embracing the tree next but three to the nor\rquote -nor\rquote west. \par
\tab Sheriff Saunders stepped out into the open and raised his machine gun. The robot, still presenting a broad metal back, said in a loud voice-to person or persons unknown--\rdblquote Watchl\rdblquote  and as the sheriff opened his mouth to signal a general order to fire, metal fingers compressed a switch. \par
\tab There exists no adequate description of what occurred afterward, in spite of the presence of seventy eyewitnesses. In the days, months, and years to come not one of those seventy ever had a word to say about the few seconds after the sheriff had opened his mouth to give the firing order. When questioned about it, they merely turned apple-green and staggered away. \par
\tab It is plain from circumstantial evidence, however, that, in a general way, what did occur was this. \par
\tab Sheriff Saunders opened his mouth; AL-76 pulled a switch. The Disinto worked, and seventy-five trees, two barns, three cows and the top three quarters of Duckbill Mountain whiffed into rarefied atmosphere. They became, so to speak, one with the snows of yesteryear. \par
\tab Sheriff Saunders\rquote  mouth remained open for an indefinite interval thereafter, but nothing--neither firing orders nor anything else--issued therefrom. And then--\par
\tab And then, there was a stirring in the air, a multiple ro-o-o-oshing sound, a series of purple streaks through the atmosphere radiating away from Randolph Payne\rquote s shack as the center, and of the members of the posse, not a sign. \par
\tab There were various guns scattered about the vicinity, including the sheriff\rquote s patented nickel-plated, extra-rapid-fire, guaranteed-no-clog, portable machine gun. There were about fifty hats, a few half-chomped cigars, and some odds and ends that had come loose in the excitement--but of actual human beings there was none. \par
\tab Except for Lank Jake, not one of those human beings came within human ken for three days, and the exception in his favor came about because he was interrupted in his comet-flight by the half-dozen men from the Petersboro factory, who were charging \i into \i0 the wood at a pretty fair speed of their \i own. \par
\tab\i0 It was Sam Tobe who stopped him, catching Lank Jake\rquote s head skillfully in the pit of his stomach. When he caught his breath. Tobe asked. \ldblquote Where\rquote s Randolph Payne\rquote s place?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lank Jake allowed his eyes to unglaze for just a moment. \ldblquote Brother,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote just you follow the direction I ain\rquote t going.\rdblquote  \par
\tab And with that, miraculously, he was gone. There was a shrinking dot dodging trees on the horizon that might have been he, but Sam Tobe wouldn\rquote t have sworn to it. \par
\tab That takes care of the posse; but there still remains Randolph Payne, whose reactions took something of a different form. \par
\tab For Randolph Payne, the five-second interval after the pulling of the switch and the disappearance of Duckbill Mountain was a total blank. At the start he had been peering through the thick underbrush from behind the bottom of the trees; at the end he was swinging wildly from one of the topmost branches. The same impulse that had driven the posse horizontally had driven him vertically. \par
\tab As to how he had covered the fifty feet from roots to top--whether he had climbed, jumped, or flown--he did not know, and he didn\rquote t give a particle of never-mind. \par
\tab What he \i did \i0 know was that property had been destroyed by a robot temporarily in his possession. All visions of rewards vanished and were replaced by trembling nightmares of hostile citizenry, shrieking lynch mobs, lawsuits, murder charges, and what Mirandy Payne would say. Mostly what Mirandy Payne would say. \par
\tab He was yelling wildly and hoarsely, \ldblquote Hey, you robot, you smash that thing, do you hear? Smash it good! You forget I ever had anything to do with it. You\rquote re a stranger to me, see? You don\rquote t ever say a word about it. Forget it, you hear?\rdblquote  \par
\tab He didn\rquote t expect his orders to do any good; it was only reflex action. What he didn\rquote t know was that a robot always obeys a human order except where carrying it out involves danger to another human. \par
\tab AL-76, therefore, calmly and methodically proceeded to demolish his Disinto into rubble and flinders. \par
\tab Just as he was stamping the last cubic inch under foot, Sam Tobe and his contingent arrived, and Randolph Payne, sensing that the real owners of the robot had come, dropped out of the tree head-first and made for regions unknown feet-first. \par
\tab He did not wait for his reward. \par
\par
\tab Austin Wilde, Robotical Engineer, turned to Sam Tobe and said, \ldblquote Did you get anything out of the robot?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Tobe shook his head and snarled deep in his throat. \ldblquote Nothing. Not one thing. He\rquote s forgotten everything that\rquote s happened since he left the factory. He must have gotten \i orders \i0 to forget, or it couldn\rquote t have left him so blank. What was that pile of junk he\rquote d been fooling with?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Just that. A pile of junk! But it must have been a Disinto before he smashed it, and I\rquote d like to kill the fellow who ordered him to smash it--by slow torture, if possible. Look at this!\rdblquote  \par
\tab They were part of the way up the slopes of what had been Duck-bill Mountain--at that point, to be exact, where the top had been sheered off; and Wilde put his hand down upon the perfect flatness that cut through both soil and rock. \par
\tab\i\ldblquote What \i0 a Disinto,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote It took the mountain right off its base.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What made him build it?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Wilde shrugged. \ldblquote I don\rquote t know. Some factor in his environment--there\rquote s no way of knowing what--reacted upon his moon-type positronic brain to produce a Disinto out of junk. It\rquote s a billion to one against our ever stumbling upon that factor again now that the robot himself has forgotten. We\rquote ll never have that Disinto.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Never mind. The important thing is that we have the robot.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The hell you say.\rdblquote  There was poignant regret in Wilde\rquote s voice. \ldblquote Have you ever had anything to do with the Disintos on the moon? They eat up energy like so many electronic hogs and won\rquote t even begin to run until you\rquote ve built up a potential of better than a million volts. But \i this \i0 Disinto worked differently. I went through the rubbish with a microscope, and would you like to see the only source of power of any kind that I found?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What was it?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Just this! And we\rquote ll never know how he did it.\rdblquote  \par
\tab And Austin Wilde held up the source of power that had enabled a Disinto to chew up a mountain in half a second--two \i flashlight batteries! \par
\par
\i0\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Victory Unintentional \par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20     \par
\tab The spaceship leaked, as the saying goes, like a sieve. It was supposed to. In fact, that was the whole idea. The result, of course, was that during the journey from Ganymede to Jupiter, the ship was crammed just as full as it could be with the very hardest space vacuum. And since the ship also lacked heating devices, this space vacuum was at normal temperature, which is a fraction of a degree above absolute zero. \par
\tab This, also, was according to plan. Little things like the absence of heat and air didn\rquote t annoy anyone at all on the particular spaceship. \par
\tab The first near vacuum wisps of Jovian atmosphere began percolating into the ship several thousand miles above the Jovian surface. It was practically all hydrogen, though perhaps a careful gas analysis might have located a trace of helium as well. The pressure gauges began creeping skyward. \par
\tab That creep continued at an accelerating pace as the ship dropped downward in a Jupiter-circling spiral. The pointers of successive gauges, each designed for progressively higher pressures, began to move until they reached the neighborhood of a million or so atmospheres, where figures lost most of their meaning. The temperature, as recorded by thermocouples, rose slowly and erratically, and finally steadied at about seventy below zero, Centigrade. \par
\tab The ship moved slowly toward the end, plowing its way heavily through a maze of gas molecules that crowded together so closely that hydrogen itself was squeezed to the density of a liquid. Ammonia vapor, drawn from the incredibly vast oceans of that liquid, saturated the horrible atmosphere. The wind, which had begun a thousand miles higher, had risen to a pitch inadequately described as a hurricane. \par
\tab It was quite plain long before the ship landed on a fairly large Jovian island, perhaps seven times the size of Asia, that Jupiter was not a very pleasant world. \par
\tab And yet the three members of the crew thought it was. They were quite convinced it was. But then, the three members of the crew were not exactly human. And neither were they exactly Jovian. \par
\tab They were simply robots, designed on Earth for Jupiter. ZZ Three said, \ldblquote It appears to be a rather desolate place.\rdblquote  ZZ Two joined him and regarded the wind-blasted landscape somberly. \ldblquote There are structures of some sort in the distance,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote which are obviously artificial. I suggest we wait for the inhabitants to come to us.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Across the room ZZ One listened, but made no reply. He was the first constructed of the three, and half experimental. Consequently he spoke a little less frequently than his two companions. \par
\tab The wait was not long. An air vessel of queer design swooped overhead. More followed. And then a line of ground vehicles approached, took position, and disgorged organisms. Along with these organisms came various inanimate accessories that might have been weapons. Some of these were borne by a single Jovian, some by several, and some advanced under their own power, with Jovians perhaps inside. \par
\tab The robots couldn\rquote t tell. ZZ Three said, \ldblquote They\rquote re all around us now. The logical peaceful gesture would be to come out in the open. Agreed?\rdblquote  \par
\tab It was, and ZZ One shoved open the heavy door, which was not double or, for that matter, particularly airtight. \par
\tab Their appearance through the door was the signal for an excited stir among the surrounding Jovians. Things were done to several of the very largest of the inanimate accessories, and ZZ Three became aware of a temperature rise on the outer rind of his beryllium-iridium-bronze body. \par
\tab He glanced at ZZ Two. \ldblquote Do you feel it? They\rquote re aiming heat energy at us, I believe.\rdblquote  \par
\tab ZZ Two indicated his surprise. \ldblquote I wonder why?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Definitely a heat ray of some sort. Look at that!\rdblquote  One of the rays had been jarred out of alignment for some undiscernible cause, and its line of radiation intersected a brook of sparkling pure ammonia-- which promptly boiled furiously. \par
\tab Three turned to ZZ One, \ldblquote Make a note of this, One, will you?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Sure.\rdblquote  It was to ZZ One that the routine secretarial work fell, and his method of taking a note was to make a mental addition to the accurate memory scroll within him. He had already gathered the hour-by-hour record of every important instrument on board ship during the trip to Jupiter. He added agreeably, \ldblquote What reason shall I put for the reaction? The human masters would probably enjoy knowing.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No reason. Or better,\rdblquote  Three corrected himself, \ldblquote no apparent reason. You might say the maximum temperature of the ray was about plus thirty, Centigrade.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Two interrupted, \ldblquote Shall we try communicating?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It would be a waste of time,\rdblquote  said Three. \ldblquote There can\rquote t be more than a very few Jovians who know the radio-click code that\rquote s been developed between Jupiter and Ganymede. They\rquote ll have to send for one, and when he comes, he\rquote ll establish contact soon enough. Meanwhile let\rquote s watch them. I don\rquote t understand their actions, I tell you frankly.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Nor did understanding come immediately. Heat radiation ceased, and other instruments were brought to the forefront and put into play. Several capsules fell at the feet of the watching robots, dropping rapidly and forcefully under Jupiter\rquote s gravity. They popped open and a blue liquid exuded, forming pools which proceeded to shrink rapidly by evaporation. \par
\tab The nightmare wind whipped the vapors away and where those vapors went, Jovians scrambled out of the way. One was too slow, threshed about wildly, and became very limp and still. \par
\tab ZZ Two bent, dabbed a finger in one of the pools and stared at the dripping liquid. \ldblquote I think this is oxygen,\rdblquote  he said. \par
\tab\ldblquote Oxygen, all right,\rdblquote  agreed Three. \ldblquote This becomes stranger and stranger. It must certainly be a dangerous practice, for I would say that oxygen is poisonous to the creatures. One of them died!\rdblquote  \par
\tab There was a pause, and then ZZ One, whose greater simplicity led at times to an increased directness of thought, said heavily, \ldblquote It might be that these strange creatures in a rather childish way are attempting to destroy us.\rdblquote  \par
\tab And Two, struck by the suggestion, answered, \ldblquote You know, One, I think you\rquote re right!\rdblquote  \par
\tab There had been a slight lull in Jovian activity and now a new structure was brought up. It possessed a slender rod that pointed skyward through the impenetrable Jovian murk. It stood in that starkly incredible wind with a rigidity that plainly indicated remarkable structural strength. From its tip came a cracking and then a Bash that lit up the depths of the atmosphere into a gray fog. \par
\tab For a moment the robots were bathed in clinging radiance and then Three said thoughtfully, \ldblquote High-tension electricity! Quite respectable power, too. One, I think you\rquote re right. After all, the human masters have told us that these creatures seek to destroy all humanity, and organisms possessing such insane viciousness as to harbor a thought of harm against a human being\rdblquote --his voice trembled at the thought--\rdblquote would scarcely scruple at attempting to destroy us.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s a shame to have such distorted minds,\rdblquote  said ZZ One. \ldblquote Poor fellows!\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I find it a very saddening thought,\rdblquote  admitted Two. \ldblquote Let\rquote s go back to the ship. We\rquote ve seen enough for now.\rdblquote  \par
\tab They did so, and settled down to wait. As ZZ Three said, Jupiter was a roomy planet, and it might take time for Jovian transportation to bring a radio code expert to the ship. However, patience is a cheap commodity to robots. \par
\tab As a matter of fact, Jupiter turned on its axis three times, according to chronometer, before the expert arrived. The rising and setting of the sun made no difference, of course, to the dead darkness at the bottom of three thousand miles of liquid-dense gas, so that one could not speak of day and night. But then, neither Jovian nor robot saw by visible light radiation and that didn\rquote t matter. \par
\tab Through this thirty-hour interval the surrounding Jovians continued their attack with a patience and persevering relentlessness concerning which robot ZZ One made a good many mental notes. The ship was assaulted by as many varieties of forces as there were hours, and the robots observed every attack attentively, analyzing such weapons as they recognized. They by no means recognized all. \par
\tab But the human masters had built well. It had taken fifteen years to construct the ship and the robots, and their essentials could be expressed in a single phrase-- raw strength. The attack spent itself uselessly and neither ship nor robot seemed the worse for it. \par
\tab Three said, \ldblquote This atmosphere handicaps them, I think. They can\rquote t use atomic disruptors, since they would only tear a hole in that soupy air and blow themselves up.\rdblquote  \par
\tab  \ldblquote They haven\rquote t used high explosives either,\rdblquote  said Two, \ldblquote which is well.  They couldn\rquote t have hurt us, naturally, but it would have thrown us about a bit.\rdblquote\par
\tab  \ldblquote High explosives are out of the question.  You can\rquote t have an explosive without gas expansion and gas just can\rquote t expand in this atmosphere.\rdblquote\par
\tab  \ldblquote It\rquote s a very good atmosphere,\rdblquote  muttered One.  \ldblquote I like it.\rdblquote\par
\tab Which was natural, because he was built for it.  The ZZ robots were the first robots ever turned out by the United States Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation that were not even faintly human in appearance.  They were low and squat, with a center of gravity less than a foot above ground level.  They had six legs apiece, stumpy and thick, designed to lift tons against two and a half times normal Earth gravity.  Their reflexes were that many times Earth-normal speed, to make up for the gravity.  And they were composed of a berylliam-iridium-bronze alloy that was proof against any known corrosive agent, also any known destructive agent short of a thousand-megaton atomic disruptor, under any conditions whatsoever.\par
\tab To dispense with further description, they were indestructible, and so impressively powerful that they were the only robots ever built on whom the roboticists of the corporation had never quite had the nerve to pin a serial-number nickname. One bright young fellow had suggested Sissy One, Two, and Three--but not in a very loud voice, and the suggestion was never repeated.\par
\tab The last hours of the wait were spent in a puzzled discussion to find a possible description of a Jovian\rquote s appearance.  ZZ One had made a note of their possession of tentacles and of their radial symmetry--and there he had struck.  Two and Three did their best, but couldn\rquote t help.\par
\tab  \ldblquote You can\rquote t very well describe anything,\rdblquote  Three declared finally, \ldblquote without a standard of reference.  These creatures are like nothing I know of--completely outside the postitronic paths of my brain.  It\rquote s like trying to describe gamma light to a robot unequipped for gamma-ray reception.\rdblquote\par
\tab It was just at that time that the weapon barrage ceased once more.  The robots turned their attention to outside the ship.\par
\tab A group of Jovians were advancing in curiously uneven fashion, but no amount of careful watching could determine the exact method of their locomotion.  How they used their tentacles was uncertain.  At times the organisms took on a remarkable slithering motion, and then they moved at great speed, perhaps with the wind\rquote s help, for they were moving downwind. \par
\tab The robots stepped out to meet the Jovians, who halted ten feet away. Both sides remained silent and motionless. \par
\tab ZZ Two said, \ldblquote They must be watching us, but I don\rquote t know how. Do either of you see any photosensitive organs?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I can\rquote t say,\rdblquote  grunted Three in response. \ldblquote I don\rquote t see anything about them that makes sense at all.\rdblquote  \par
\tab There was a sudden metallic clicking from among the Jovian group and ZZ One said delightedly, \ldblquote It\rquote s the radio code. They\rquote ve got the communications expert here.\rdblquote  \par
\tab It was, and they had. The complicated dot-dash system that over a period of twenty-five years had been laboriously developed by the beings of Jupiter and the Earthmen of Ganymede into a remarkably flexible means of communication was finally being put into practice at close range. \par
\tab One Jovian remained in the forefront now, the others having fallen back. It was he that was speaking. The clicking said, \ldblquote Where are you from?\rdblquote  \par
\tab ZZ Three, as the most mentally advanced, naturally assumed spokesmanship for the robot group. \ldblquote We are from Jupiter\rquote s satellite, Ganymede.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The Jovian continued, \ldblquote What do you want?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Information. We have come to study your world and to bring back our findings. If we could have your cooperation--\rdblquote  \par
\tab The Jovian clicking interrupted. \ldblquote You must be destroyed!\rdblquote  \par
\tab ZZ Three paused and said in a thoughtful aside to his two companions, \ldblquote Exactly the attitude the human masters said they would take. They are very unusual.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Returning to his clicking, he asked simply, \ldblquote Why?\rdblquote  \par
\tab The Jovian evidently considered certain questions too obnoxious to be answered. He said, \ldblquote If you leave within a single period of revolution, we will spare you-- until such time as we emerge from our world to destroy the un-Jovian vermin of Ganymede.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I would like to point out,\rdblquote  said Three, \ldblquote that we of Ganymede and the inner planets--\rdblquote  \par
\tab The Jovian interrupted, \ldblquote Our astronomy knows of the Sun and of our four satellites. There are no inner planets.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Three conceded the point wearily, \ldblquote We of Ganymede, then. We have no designs on Jupiter. We\rquote re prepared to offer friendship. For twenty-five years your people communicated freely with the human beings of Ganymede. Is there any reason to make sudden war upon the humans?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote For twenty-five years,\rdblquote  was the cold response, \ldblquote we assumed the inhabitants of Ganymede to be Jovians. When we found out they were not, and that we had been treating lower animals on the scale of Jovian intelligences, we were bound to take steps to wipe out the dishonor.\rdblquote\par
\tab Slowly and forcefully he finished, \ldblquote We of Jupiter will suffer the existence of no vermin!\rdblquote  \par
\tab The Jovian was backing away in some fashion, tacking against the wind, and the interview was evidently over. \par
\tab The robots retreated inside the ship. \par
\tab ZZ Two said, \ldblquote It looks bad, doesn\rquote t it?\rdblquote  He continued thoughtfully, \ldblquote It is as the human masters said. They possess an ultimately developed superiority complex, combined with an extreme intolerance for anyone or anything that disturbs that complex.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The intolerance,\rdblquote  observed Three, \ldblquote is the natural consequence of the complex. The trouble is that their intolerance has teeth in it. They have weapons-- and their science is great.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I am not surprised now,\rdblquote  burst out ZZ One, \ldblquote that we were specifically instructed to disregard Jovian orders. They are horrible, intolerant, pseudo-superior beings!\rdblquote  He added emphatically, with robotical loyalty and faith, \ldblquote No human master could ever be like that.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That, though true, is beside the point,\rdblquote  said Three. \ldblquote The fact remains that the human masters are in terrible danger. This is a gigantic world and these Jovians are greater in numbers and resources by a hundred times or more than the humans of the entire Terrestrial Empire. If they can ever develop the force field to the point where they can use it as a spaceship hull-- as the human masters have already done-- they will overrun the system at will. The question remains as to how far they have advanced in that direction, what other weapons they have, what preparations they are making, and so on. To return with that information is our function, of course, and we had better decide on our next step.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It may be difficult,\rdblquote  said Two. \ldblquote The Jovians won\rquote t help us.\rdblquote  Which, at the moment, was rather an understatement. \par
\tab Three thought awhile. \ldblquote It seems to me that we need only wait,\rdblquote  he observed. \ldblquote They have tried to destroy us for thirty hours now and haven\rquote t succeeded. Certainly they have done their best. Now a superiority complex always involves the eternal necessity of saving face, and the ultimatum given us proves it in this case. They would never allow us to leave if they could destroy us. But if we don\rquote t leave, then rather than admit they cannot force us away, they will surely pretend that they are willing, for their own purposes, to have us stay.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Once again they waited. The day passed. The weapon barrage did not resume. The robots did not leave. The bluff was called. And now the robots faced the Jovian radio-code expert once again. \par
\tab If the ZZ models had been equipped with a sense of humor, they would have enjoyed themselves immensely. As it was, they felt merely a solemn sense of satisfaction. \par
\tab The Jovian said, \ldblquote It has been our decision that you will be allowed to remain for a very short time, so that you see our power for yourself. You shall then return to Ganymede to inform your companion vermin of the disastrous end to which they will unfailingly come within a solar revolution.\rdblquote  \par
\tab ZZ One made a mental note that a Jovian revolution took twelve earthly years. \par
\tab Three replied casually, \ldblquote Thank you. May we accompany you to the nearest town? There are many things we would like to learn.\rdblquote  He added as an afterthought, \ldblquote Our ship is not to be touched, of course.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He said this as a request, not as a threat, for no ZZ model was ever pugnacious. All capacity for even the slightest annoyance had been carefully barred in their construction. With robots as vastly powerful as the ZZ\rquote s, unfailing good temper was essential for safety during the years of testing on Earth. \par
\tab The Jovian said, \ldblquote We are not interested in your verminous ship. No Jovian will pollute himself by approaching it. You may accompany us, but you must on no account approach closer than ten feet to any Jovian, or you will be instantly destroyed.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Stuck up, aren\rquote t they?\rdblquote  observed Two in a genial whisper, as they plowed into the wind. \par
\tab The town was a port on the shores of an incredible ammonia lake. The external wind whipped furious, frothy waves that shot across the liquid surface at the hectic rate enforced by the gravity. The port itself was neither large nor impressive and it seemed fairly evident that most of the construction was underground. \par
\tab\ldblquote What is the population of this place?\rdblquote  asked Three. \par
\tab The Jovian replied, \ldblquote It is a small town of ten million.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I see. Make a note of that, One.\rdblquote  \par
\tab ZZ One did so mechanically, and then turned once more to the lake, at which he had been staring in fascination. He pulled at Three\rquote s elbow. \ldblquote Say, do you suppose they have fish here?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What difference does it make?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I think we ought to know. The human masters ordered us to find out everything we could.\rdblquote  Of the robots, One was the simplest and, consequently, the one who took orders in the most literal fashion. \par
\tab Two said, \ldblquote Let One go and look if he likes. It won\rquote t do any harm if we let the kid have his fun.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote All right. There\rquote s no real objection if he doesn\rquote t waste his time. Fish aren\rquote t what we came for--but go ahead, One.\rdblquote  \par
\tab ZZ One made off in great excitement and slogged rapidly down the beach, plunging into the ammonia with a splash. The Jovians watched attentively. They had understood none of the previous conversation, of course. \par
\tab The radio code expert clicked out, \ldblquote It is apparent that your companion has decided to abandon life in despair at our greatness.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Three said in surprise, \ldblquote Nothing of the sort. He wants to investigate the living organisms, if any, that live in the ammonia.\rdblquote  He added apologetically, \ldblquote Our friend is very curious at times, and he isn\rquote t quite as bright as we are, though that is only his misfortune. We understand that and try to humor him whenever we can.\rdblquote  \par
\tab There was a long pause, and the Jovian observed, \ldblquote He will drown.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Three replied casually, \ldblquote No danger of that. We don\rquote t drown. May we enter the town as soon as he returns?\rdblquote  \par
\tab At that moment there was a spurt of liquid several hundred feet out in the lake. It sprayed upward wildly and then hurtled down in a wind-driven mist. Another spurt and another, then a wild white foaming that formed a trail toward shore, gradually quieting as it approached. \par
\tab The two robots watched this in amazement, and the utter lack of motion on the part of the Jovians indicated that they were watching as well. \par
\tab Then the head of ZZ One broke the surface and he made his slow way out on to dry land. But something followed him! Some organism of gigantic size that seemed nothing but fangs, claws, and spines. Then they saw that it wasn\rquote t following him under its own power, but was being dragged across the beach by ZZ One. There was a significant flabbiness about it. \par
\tab ZZ One approached rather timidly and took communication into his own hands. He tapped out a message to the Jovian in agitated fashion. \ldblquote I am very sorry this happened, but the thing attacked me. I was merely taking notes on it. It is not a valuable creature, I hope.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He was not answered immediately, for at the first appearance of the monster there had been a wild break in the Jovian ranks. These reformed slowly, and cautious observation having proven the creator to be indeed dead, order was restored. Some of the bolder were curiously prodding the body. \par
\tab ZZ Three said humbly, \ldblquote I hope you will pardon our friend. He is sometimes clumsy. We have absolutely no intention of harming any Jovian creature.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote He attacked me,\rdblquote  explained One. \ldblquote He bit at me without provocation. See!\rdblquote  And he displayed a two-foot fang that ended in a jagged break. \ldblquote He broke it on my shoulder and almost left a scratch. I just slapped it a bit to send it away-- and it died. I\rquote m sorry!\rdblquote  \par
\tab The Jovian finally spoke, and his code clicking was a rather stuttery affair. \ldblquote It is a wild creature, rarely found so close to shore, but the lake is deep just here.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Three said, still anxiously, \ldblquote If you can use it for food, we are only too glad--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No. We can get food for ourselves without the help of verm--without the help of others. Eat it yourselves.\rdblquote  \par
\tab At that ZZ One heaved the creature up and back into the sea, with an easy motion of one arm. Three said casually, \ldblquote Thank you for your kind offer, but we have no use for food. We don\rquote t eat, of course.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Escorted by two hundred or so armed Jovians, the robots passed down a series of ramps into the underground city. If, above the surface, the city had looked small and unimpressive, then from beneath it took on the appearance of a vast megalopolis. \par
\tab They were ushered into ground cars that were operated by remote control--for no honest, self-respecting Jovian would risk his superiority by placing himself in the same car with vermin--and driven at frightful speed to the center of the town. They saw enough to decide that it extended fifty miles from end to end and reached downward into Jupiter\rquote s crust at least eight miles. \par
\tab ZZ Two did not sound happy as he said, \ldblquote If this is a sample of Jovian development then we shall not have a hopeful report to bring back to the human masters. After all, we landed on the vast surface of Jupiter at random, with the chances a thousand to one against coming near any really concentrated center of population. This must be, as the code expert says, a mere town.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Ten million Jovians,\rdblquote  said Three abstractedly. \ldblquote Total population must be in the trillions, which is high, very high, even for Jupiter. They probably have a completely urban civilization, which means that their scientific development must be tremendous. If they have force fields--\rdblquote  \par
\tab Three had no neck, for in the interest of strength the heads of the ZZ models were riveted firmly onto the torso, with the delicate positronic brains protected by three separate layers in inch-thick iridium alloy. But if he had had one, he would have shaken his head dolefully. \par
\tab They had stopped now in a cleared space. Everywhere about them they could see avenues and structures crowded with Jovians, as curious as any terrestrial crowd would have been in similar circumstances. \par
\tab The code expert approached. \ldblquote It is time now for me to retire until the next period of activity. We have gone so far as to arrange quarters for you at great inconvenience to ourselves for, of course, the structure will have to be pulled down and rebuilt afterward. Nevertheless, you will be allowed to sleep for a space.\rdblquote  \par
\tab ZZ Three waved an arm in deprecation and tapped out, \ldblquote We thank you but you must not trouble yourself. We don\rquote t mind remaining right here. If you want to sleep and rest, by all means do. We\rquote ll wait for you. As for us,\rdblquote  casually, \ldblquote we don\rquote t sleep.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The Jovian said nothing, though if it had had a face, the expression upon it might have been interesting. It left, and the robots remained in the car, with squads of well-armed Jovians, frequently replaced, surrounding them as guards. \par
\tab It was hours before the ranks of those guards parted to allow the code expert to return. Along with him were other Jovians, whom he introduced. \par
\tab\ldblquote There are with me two officials of the central government who have graciously consented to speak with you.\rdblquote  \par
\tab One of the officials evidently knew the code, for his clicking interrupted the code expert sharply. He addressed the robots, \ldblquote Vermin! Emerge from the ground car that we may look at you.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The robots were only too willing to comply, so while Three and Two vaulted over the right side of the car, ZZ One dashed through the left side. The word through is used advisedly, for since he neglected to work the mechanism that lowered a section of side so that one might exit, he carried that side, plus two wheels and an axle, along with him. The car collapsed, and ZZ One stood staring at the ruins in embarrassed silence. \par
\tab At last he clicked out gently, \ldblquote I\rquote m very sorry. I hope it wasn\rquote t an expensive car.\rdblquote  \par
\tab ZZ Two added apologetically, \ldblquote Our companion is often clumsy. You must excuse him,\rdblquote  and ZZ Three made a halfhearted attempt to put the car back together again. \par
\tab ZZ One made another effort to excuse himself. \ldblquote The material of the car was rather flimsy. You see?\rdblquote  He lifted a square-yard sheet of three-inch-thick, metal-hard plastic in both hands and exerted a bit of pressure. The sheet promptly snapped in two. \ldblquote I should have made allowances,\rdblquote  he admitted. \par
\tab The Jovian government official said in slightly less sharp fashion, \ldblquote The car would have had to be destroyed anyway, after being polluted by your presence.\rdblquote  He paused, then, \ldblquote Creatures! We Jovians lack vulgar curiosity concerning lower animals, but our scientists seek facts.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote We\rquote re right with you,\rdblquote  replied Three cheerfully. \ldblquote So do we.\rdblquote  The Jovian ignored him. \ldblquote You lack the mass-sensitive organ, apparently. How is it that you are aware of distant objects?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Three grew interested. \ldblquote Do you mean your people are directly sensitive to mass?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I am not here to answer your questions-- your impudent questions-- about us.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I take it then that objects of low specific mass would be transparent to you, even in the absence of radiation.\rdblquote  He turned to Two, \ldblquote That\rquote s how they see. Their atmosphere is as transparent as space to them.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The Jovian clicking began once more, \ldblquote You will answer my first question immediately, or my patience will end and I will order you destroyed.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Three said at once, \ldblquote We are energy-sensitive, Jovian. We can adjust ourselves to the entire electromagnetic scale at will. At present, our long-distance sight is due to radio-wave radiation that we emit ourselves, and at close range we see by--\rdblquote  He paused, and said to Two, \ldblquote There isn\rquote t any code word for gamma ray, is there?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Not that I know of,\rdblquote  Two answered. \par
\tab Three continued to the Jovian, \ldblquote At close range we see by other radiation for which there is no code word.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Of what is your body composed?\rdblquote  demanded the Jovian. \par
\tab Two whispered, \ldblquote He probably asks that because his mass sensitivity can\rquote t penetrate past our skin. High density, you know. Ought we to tell him?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Three replied uncertainly, \ldblquote Our human masters didn\rquote t particularly say we were to keep anything secret.\rdblquote  In radio code, to the Jovian he said, \ldblquote We are mostly iridium. For the rest, copper, tin, a little beryllium, and a scattering of other substances.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The Jovians fell back and by the obscure writhing of various portions of their thoroughly indescribable bodies gave the impression that they were in animated conversation, although they made no sound. \par
\tab And then the official returned. \ldblquote Beings of Ganymede! It has been decided to show you through some of our factories that we may exhibit a tiny part of our great achievements. We will then allow you to return so that you may spread despair among the other verm--the other beings of the outer world.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Three said to Two, \ldblquote Note the effect of their psychology. They must hammer home their superiority. It\rquote s still a matter of saving face.\rdblquote  And in radio code, \ldblquote We thank you for the opportunity.\rdblquote  \par
\tab But the face saving was efficient, as the robots realized soon enough. The demonstration became a tour, and the tour a Grand Exhibition. The Jovians displayed everything, explained everything, answered all questions eagerly, and ZZ One made hundreds of despairing notes. \par
\tab The war potential of that single so-called unimportant town was greater by several times than that of all Ganymede. Ten more such towns would outproduce all the Terrestrial Empire. Yet ten more such towns would not be the fingernail fragment of the strength all Jupiter must be able to exert. \par
\tab Three turned as One nudged him. \ldblquote What is it?\rdblquote  \par
\tab ZZ One said seriously, \ldblquote 1f they have force fields, the human masters are lost, aren\rquote t they?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m afraid so. Why do you ask?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Because the Jovians aren\rquote t showing us through the right wing of this factory. It might be that force fields are being developed there. They would be wanting to keep it secret if they were. We\rquote d better find out. It\rquote s the main point, you know.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Three regarded One somberly. \ldblquote Perhaps you\rquote re right. It\rquote s no use ignoring anything.\rdblquote  \par
\tab They were in a huge steel mill now, watching hundred-foot beams of ammonia-resistant silicon-steel alloy being turned out twenty to the second. Three asked quietly, \ldblquote What does that wing contain?\rdblquote  \par
\tab The government official inquired of those in charge of the factory and explained, \ldblquote That is the section of great heat. Various processes require huge temperatures which life cannot bear, and they must all be handled indirectly.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He led the way to a partition from which heat could be felt to radiate and indicated a small round area of transparent material. It was one of a row of such, through which the foggy red light of lines of glowing forges could be made out through the soupy atmosphere. \par
\tab ZZ One fastened a look of suspicion on the Jovian and clicked out, \ldblquote Would it be all right if I went in and looked around? I am very interested in this.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Three said, \ldblquote You\rquote re being childish, One. They\rquote re telling the truth. Oh well, nose around if you must. But don\rquote t take too long; we\rquote ve got to move on.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The Jovian said, \ldblquote You have no understanding of the heat involved. You will die.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Oh no,\rdblquote  explained One casually. \ldblquote Heat doesn\rquote t bother us.\rdblquote  \par
\tab There was a Jovian conference, and then a scene of scurrying confusion as the life of the factory was geared to this unusual emergency. Screens of heat-absorbent material were set up, and then a door dropped open, a door that had never before budged while the forges were working. ZZ One entered and the door closed behind him. Jovian officials crowded to the transparent areas to watch. \par
\tab ZZ One walked to the nearest forge and tapped the outside. Since he was too short to see into it comfortably, he tipped the forge until the molten metal licked at the lip of the container. He peered at it curiously, then dipped his hand in and stirred it awhile to test the consistency. Having done this, he withdrew his hand, shook off some of the fiery metallic droplets and wiped the rest on one of his six thighs. Slowly he went down the line of forges, then signified his desire to leave. \par
\tab The Jovians retired to a great distance when he came out of the door and played a stream of ammonia on him, which hissed, bubbled and steamed until he was brought to bearable temperature once more. \par
\tab ZZ One ignored the ammonia shower and said, \ldblquote They were telling the truth. No force fields.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Three began, \ldblquote You see--\rdblquote  but One interrupted impatiently, \ldblquote But there\rquote s no use delaying. The human masters instructed us to find out everything and that\rquote s that.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He turned to the Jovian and clicked out, without the slightest hesitation, \ldblquote Listen, has Jovian science developed force fields?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Bluntness was, of course, one of the natural consequences of One\rquote s less well developed mental powers. Two and Three knew that, so they refrained from expressing disapproval of the remark. \par
\tab The Jovian official relaxed slowly from his strangely stiffened attitude, which had somehow given the impression that he had been staring stupidly at One\rquote s hand--the one he had dipped into the molten metal. The Jovian said slowly, \ldblquote Force fields? That, then, is your main object of curiosity?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  said One with emphasis. \par
\tab There was a sudden and patent gain in confidence on the Jovian\rquote s part, for the clicking grew sharper. \ldblquote Then come, vermin!\rdblquote  \par
\tab Whereupon Three said to Two, \ldblquote We\rquote re vermin again, I see, which sounds as if there\rquote s bad news ahead.\rdblquote  And Two gloomily agreed. \par
\tab It was to the very edge of the city that they were now led-- to the portion which on Earth would have been termed the suburbs-- and into one of a series of closely integrated structures, which might have corresponded vaguely to a terrestrial university. \par
\tab There were no explanations, however, and none was asked for. The Jovian official led the way rapidly, and the robots followed with the grim conviction that the worst was just about to happen. \par
\tab It was ZZ One who stopped before an opened wall section after the rest had passed on. \ldblquote What\rquote s this?\rdblquote  he wanted to know. \par
\tab The room was equipped with narrow, low benches, along which Jovians manipulated rows of strange devices, of which strong, inch-long electromagnets formed the principal feature. \par
\tab\ldblquote What\rquote s this?\rdblquote  asked One again. \par
\tab The Jovian turned back and exhibited impatience. \ldblquote This is a students\rquote  biological laboratory. There\rquote s nothing there to interest you.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But what are they doing?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote They are studying microscopic life. Haven\rquote t you ever seen a microscope before?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Three interrupted in explanation, \ldblquote He has, but not that type. Our microscopes are meant for energy-sensitive organs and work by refraction of radiant energy. Your microscopes evidently work on a mass-expansion basis. Rather ingenious.\rdblquote  \par
\tab ZZ One said, \ldblquote Would it be all right if I inspected some of your specimens?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Of what use will that be? You cannot use our microscopes because of your sensory limitations and it will simply force us to discard such specimens as you approach for no decent reason.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But I don\rquote t need a microscope,\rdblquote  explained One, with surprise. \ldblquote I can easily adjust myself for microscopic vision.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He strode to the nearest bench, while the students in the room crowded to the corner in an attempt to avoid contamination. ZZ One shoved a microscope aside and inspected the slide carefully. He backed away, puzzled, then tried another...a third...a fourth. \par
\tab He came back and addressed the Jovian. \ldblquote Those are supposed to be alive, aren\rquote t they? I mean those little worm things.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The Jovian said, \ldblquote Certainly.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s strange-- when I look at them, they die!\rdblquote  \par
\tab Three exclaimed sharply and said to his two companions, \ldblquote We\rquote ve forgotten our gamma-ray radiation. Let\rquote s get out of here, One, or we\rquote ll kill every bit of microscopic life in the room.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He turned to the Jovian, \ldblquote I\rquote m afraid that our presence is fatal to weaker forms of life. We had better leave. We hope the specimens are not too difficult to replace. And, while we\rquote re about it, you had better not stay too near us, or our radiation may affect you adversely. You feel all right so far, don\rquote t you?\rdblquote  he asked. \par
\tab The Jovian led the way onward in proud silence, but it was to be noticed that thereafter he doubled the distance he had hitherto kept between himself and them. \par
\tab Nothing more was said until the robots found themselves in a vast room. In the very center of it huge ingots of metal rested unsupported in mid-air--or, rather, supported by nothing visible--against mighty Jovian gravity. \par
\tab The Jovian clicked, \ldblquote There is your force field in ultimate form, as recently perfected. Within that bubble is a vacuum, so that it is supporting the full weight of our atmosphere plus an amount of metal equivalent to two large spaceships. What do you say to that?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That space travel now becomes a possibility for you,\rdblquote  said Three. \ldblquote Definitely. No metal or plastic has the strength to hold our atmosphere against a vacuum, but a force field can-- and a force-field bubble will be our spaceship. Within the year we will be turning them out by the hundreds of thousands. Then we will swarm down upon Ganymede to destroy the verminous so-called intelligences that attempt to dispute our dominion of the universe.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The human beings of Ganymede have never attempted--\rdblquote  began Three, in mild expostulation. \par
\tab\ldblquote Silence!\rdblquote  snapped the Jovian. \ldblquote Return now and tell them what you\rquote ve seen. Their own feeble force fields-- such as the one your ship is equipped with-- will not stand against us, for our smallest ship will be a hundred times the size and power of yours.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Three said, \ldblquote Then there\rquote s nothing more to do and we will return, as you say, with the information. If you could lead us back to our ship, we\rquote ll say good-by. But by the way, just as a matter for the record, there\rquote s something you don\rquote t understand. The humans of Ganymede have force fields, of course, but our particular ship isn\rquote t equipped with one. We don\rquote t need any.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The robot turned away and motioned his companions to follow. For a moment they did not speak, then ZZ One muttered dejectedly, \ldblquote Can\rquote t we try to destroy this place?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It won\rquote t help,\rdblquote  said Three. \ldblquote They\rquote d get us by weight of numbers. It\rquote s no use. In an earthly decade the human masters will be finished. It is impossible to stand against Jupiter. There\rquote s just too much of it. As long as Jovians were tied to the surface, the humans were safe. But now that they have force fields. All we can do is to bring the news. By the preparation of hiding places, some few may survive for a short while.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The city was behind them. They were out on the open plain by the lake, with their ship a dark spot on the horizon, when the Jovian spoke suddenly: \par
\tab\ldblquote Creatures, you say you have no force field?\rdblquote  Three replied without interest, \ldblquote We don\rquote t need one.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote How then does your ship stand the vacuum of space without exploding because of the atmospheric pressure within?\rdblquote  And he moved a tentacle as if in mute gesture at the Jovian atmosphere that was weighing down upon them with a force of twenty million pounds to the square inch. \par
\tab\ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  explained Three, \ldblquote that\rquote s simple. Our ship isn\rquote t airtight. Pressures equalize within and without.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Even in space? A vacuum in your ship? You lie!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote re welcome to inspect our ship. It has no force field and it isn\rquote t airtight. What\rquote s marvelous about that? We don\rquote t breathe. Our energy is obtained through direct atomic power. The presence or absence of air pressure makes little difference to us and we\rquote re quite at home in a vacuum.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But absolute zero!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It doesn\rquote t matter. We regulate our own heat. We\rquote re not interested in outside temperatures.\rdblquote  He paused. \ldblquote Well, we can make our own way back to the ship. Good-by. We\rquote ll give the humans of Ganymede your message-- war to the end!\rdblquote  \par
\tab But the Jovian said, \ldblquote Wait! I\rquote ll be back.\rdblquote  He turned and went toward the city. \par
\tab The robots stared, and then waited in silence. It was three hours before he returned and when he did, it was in breathless haste. He stopped within the usual ten feet of the robots, but then began inching his way forward in a curious groveling fashion. He did not speak until his rubbery gray skin was almost touching them, and then the radio code sounded, subdued and respectful. \par
\tab\ldblquote Honored sirs, I have been in communication with the head of our central government, who is now aware of all the facts, and I can assure you that Jupiter desires only peace,\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I beg your pardon?\rdblquote  asked Three blankly. The Jovian drove on hastily. \ldblquote We are ready to resume communication with Ganymede and will gladly promise to make no attempt to venture into space. Our force field will be used only on the Jovian surface.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But--\rdblquote  Three began. \ldblquote Our government will be glad to receive any other representatives our honorable human brothers of Ganymede would care to send. If your honors will now condescend to swear peace--\rdblquote  a scaly tentacle swung out toward them and Three, quite dazed, grasped it. Two and One did likewise as two more were extended to them. \par
\tab The Jovian said solemnly: \ldblquote There is then eternal peace between Jupiter and Ganymede.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The spaceship which leaked like a sieve was out in space again. The pressure and temperature were once more at zero, and the robots watched the huge but steadily shrinking globe that was Jupiter. \par
\tab\ldblquote They\rquote re definitely sincere,\rdblquote  said ZZ Two, \ldblquote and it\rquote s very gratifying, this complete about-face, but I don\rquote t get it.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It is my idea,\rdblquote  observed ZZ One, \ldblquote that the Jovians came to their senses just in time and realized the incredible evil involved in the thought of harm to a human master. That would be only natural.\rdblquote  \par
\tab ZZ Three sighed and said, \ldblquote Look, it\rquote s all a matter of psychology. Those Jovians had a superiority complex a mile thick and when they couldn\rquote t destroy us, they were bound to save face. All their exhibitions, all their explanations, were simply a form of braggadocio, designed to impress us into the proper state of humiliation before their power and superiority.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I see all that,\rdblquote  interrupted Two, \ldblquote but--\rdblquote  Three went on, \ldblquote But it worked the wrong way. All they did was to prove to themselves that we were stronger, that we didn\rquote t drown, that we didn\rquote t eat or sleep, that molten metal didn\rquote t hurt us. Even our very presence was fatal to Jovian life. Their last trump was the force field. And when they found out that \i we \i0 didn\rquote t need them at all, and could live in a vacuum at absolute zero, they broke.\rdblquote  He paused and added philosophically, \ldblquote When a superiority complex like that breaks, it breaks all the way.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The other two considered that, and then Two said, \ldblquote But it still doesn\rquote t make sense. Why should they care what we can or can\rquote t do? We\rquote re only robots. We\rquote re not the ones they have to fight.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And that\rquote s the whole point, Two,\rdblquote  said Three softly. \ldblquote It\rquote s only after we left Jupiter that I thought of it. Do you know that through an oversight, quite unintentionally, we neglected to tell them we were only robots.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote They never asked us,\rdblquote  said One. \ldblquote Exactly. So they thought we were human beings and that all the other human beings were like us!\rdblquote  \par
\tab He looked once more at Jupiter, thoughtfully. \ldblquote No wonder they decided to quit!\rdblquote  \par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Stranger in Paradise \par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\tab 1. \par
\par
\tab They were brothers. Not in the sense that they were both human beings, or that they were fellow children of a creche. Not at all! They were brothers in the actual biological sense of the word. They were kin, to use a term that had grown faintly archaic even centuries before, prior to the Catastrophe, when that tribal phenomenon, the family, still had some validity. \par
\tab How embarrassing it was! Over the years since childhood, Anthony had almost forgotten. There were times when he hadn\rquote t given it even the slightest thought for months at a time. But now, ever since he had been inextricably thrown together with William, he had found himself living through an agonizing time. \par
\tab It might not have been so bad if circumstances had made it obvious all along; if, as in the pre-Catastrophe days-- Anthony had at one time been a great reader of history-- they had shared the second name and in that way alone flaunted the relationship. \par
\tab Nowadays, of course, one adopted one\rquote s second name to suit oneself and changed it as often as desired. After all, the symbol chain was what really counted, and that was encoded and made yours from birth. \par
\tab William called himself Anti-Aut. That was what he insisted on with a kind of sober professionalism. His own business, surely, but what an advertisement of personal poor taste. Anthony had decided on Smith when he had turned thirteen and had never had the impulse to change it. It was simple, easily spelled, and quite distinctive, since he had never met anyone else who had chosen that name. It was once very common--among the pre-Cats--which explained its rareness now perhaps. \par
\tab But the difference in names meant nothing when the two were together. They looked alike. \par
\tab If they had been twins-- but then one of a pair of twin-fertilized ova was never allowed to come to term. It was just that physical similarity occasionally happened in the non-twin situation, especially when the relationship was on both sides. Anthony Smith was five years younger, but both had the beaky nose, the heavy eyelids, the just noticeable cleft in the chin-- that damned luck of the genetic draw. It was just asking for it when, out of some passion for monotony, parents repeated. \par
\tab At first, now that they were together, they drew that startled glance followed by an elaborate silence. Anthony tried to ignore the matter, but out of sheer perversity--or perversion--William was as likely as not to say. \ldblquote We\rquote re brothers... \par
\tab\ldblquote Oh?\rdblquote  the other would say, hanging in there for just a moment as though he wanted to ask if they were full blood brothers. And then good manners would win the day and he would turn away as though it were a matter of no interest. That happened only rarely, of course. Most of the people in the Project knew--how could it be prevented? --and avoided the situation. \par
\tab Not that William was a bad fellow. Not at all. If he hadn\rquote t been Anthony\rquote s brother; or if they had been, but looked sufficiently different to be able to mask the fact, they would have gotten along famously. \par
\tab As it was--It didn\rquote t make it easier that they had played together as youngsters, and had shared the earlier stages of education in the same creche through some successful maneuvering on the part of Mother. Having borne two sons by the same father and having, in this fashion, reached her limit (for she had not fulfilled the stringent requirements for a third), she conceived the notion of being able to visit both at a single trip. She was a strange woman. \par
\tab William had left the creche first, naturally, since he was the elder. He had gone into science-genetic engineering. Anthony had heard that, while he was still in the creche, through a letter from his mother. He was old enough by then to speak firmly to the matron, and those letters stopped. But he always remembered the last one for the agony of shame it had brought him. \par
\tab Anthony had eventually entered science, too. He had shown talent in that direction and had been urged to. He remembered having had the wild--and prophetic, he now realized--fear he might meet his brother and he ended in telemetrics, which was as far removed from genetic engineering as one could imagine....Or so one would have thought. \par
\tab Then, through all the elaborate development of the Mercury Project, circumstance waited. \par
\tab The time came, as it happened, when the Project appeared to be facing a dead end; and a suggestion had been made which saved the situation, and at the same time dragged Anthony into the dilemma his parents had prepared for him. And the best and most sardonic part of the whole thing was that it was Anthony who, in all innocence, made the suggestion. \par
\par
\tab 2. \par
\par
\tab William Anti-Aut knew of the Mercury Project, but only in the way he knew of the long-drawn-out Stellar Probe that had been on its way long before he was born and would still be on its way after his death; and the way he knew of the Martian colony and of the continuing attempts to establish similar colonies on the asteroids. \par
\tab Such things were on the distant periphery of his mind and of no real importance. No part of the space effort had ever swirled inward closer to the center of his interests, as far as he could remember, till the day when the printout included photographs of some of the men engaged in the Mercury Project. \par
\tab William\rquote s attention was caught first by the fact that one of them had been identified as Anthony Smith. He remembered the odd name his brother had chosen, and he remembered the Anthony. Surely there could not be two Anthony Smiths. \par
\tab He had then looked at the photograph itself and there was no mistaking the face. He looked in the mirror in a sudden whimsical gesture at checking the matter. No mistaking the face. \par
\tab He felt amused, but uneasily so, for he did not fail to recognize the potentiality for embarrassment. Full blood brothers, to use the disgusting phrase. But what was there to do about it? How correct the fact that neither his father nor his mother had imagination? \par
\tab He must have put the printout in his pocket, absently, when he was getting ready to leave for work, for he came across it at the lunch hour. He stared at it again. Anthony looked keen. It was quite a good reproduction-- the printouts were of enormously good quality these days. \par
\tab His lunch partner, Marco Whatever-his-name-was-that-week, said curiously, \ldblquote What are you looking at, William?\rdblquote  \par
\tab On impulse, William passed him the printout and said, \ldblquote That\rquote s my brother.\rdblquote  It was like grasping the nettle. \par
\tab Marco studied it, frowning, and said, \ldblquote Who? The man standing next to you?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No, the man who \i is \i0 me. I mean the man who looks like me. He\rquote s my brother.\rdblquote  \par
\tab There was a longer pause this time. Marco handed it back and said with a careful levelness to his voice, \ldblquote Same-parents brother?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Father and mother both.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Ridiculous!\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I suppose so.\rdblquote  William sighed. \ldblquote Well, according to this, he\rquote s in telemetrics over in Texas and I\rquote m doing work in autistics up here. So what difference does it make?\rdblquote  \par
\tab William did not keep it in his mind and later that day he threw the printout away. He did not want his current bedmate to come across it. She had a ribald sense of humor that William was finding increasingly wearying. He was rather glad she was not in the mood for a child. He himself had had one a few years back anyway. That little brunette, Laura or Linda, one or the other name, had collaborated. \par
\tab It was quite a time after that, at least a year, that the matter of Randall had come up. If William had given no further thought to his brother--and he hadn\rquote t--before that, he certainly had no time for it afterward. \par
\tab Randall was sixteen when William first received word of him. He had lived a life that was increasingly seclusive and the Kentucky creche in which he was being brought up decided to cancel him and of course it was only some eight or ten days before cancellation that it occurred to anyone to report him to the New York Institute for the Science of Man. (The Homological Institute was its common name.) \par
\tab William received the report along with reports of several others and there was nothing in the description of Randall that particularly attracted his notice. Still it was time for one of his tedious masstransport trips to the creches and there was one likely possibility in West Virginia. He went there-- and was disappointed into swearing for the fiftieth time that he would thereafter make these visits by TV image-- and then, having dragged himself there, thought he might as well take in the Kentucky creche before returning home. \par
\tab He expected nothing. \par
\tab Yet he hadn\rquote t studied Randall\rquote s gene pattern for more than ten minutes before he was calling the Institute for a computer calculation. Then he sat back and perspired slightly at the thought that only a last-minute impulse had brought him, and that without that impulse, Randall would have been quietly canceled in a week or less. To put it into the fine detail, a drug would have soaked painlessly through his skin and into his bloodstream and he would have sunk into a peaceful sleep that deepened gradually to death. The drug had a twenty-three-syllable official name, but William called it \ldblquote nirvanamine,\rdblquote  as did everyone else. \par
\tab William said, \ldblquote What is his full name, matron?\rdblquote  \par
\tab The creche matron said, \ldblquote Randall Nowan, scholar.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No one!\rdblquote  said William explosively. \par
\tab\ldblquote Nowan.\rdblquote  The matron spelled it. \ldblquote He chose it last year.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And it meant nothing to you? It is pronounced No one! It didn\rquote t occur to you to report this young man last year?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It didn\rquote t seem--\rdblquote  began the matron, flustered. \par
\tab William waved her to silence. What was the use? How was she to know? There was nothing in the gene pattern to give warning by any of the usual textbook criteria. It was a subtle combination that William and his staff had worked out over a period of twenty years through experiments on autistic children-- and a combination they had never actually seen in life. \par
\tab So close to canceling! \par
\tab Marco, who was the hardhead of the group, complained that the creches were too eager to abort before term and to cancel after term. He maintained that all gene patterns should be allowed to develop for purpose of initial screening and there should be no cancellation at all without consultation with a homologist. \par
\tab\ldblquote There aren\rquote t enough homologists,\rdblquote  William said tranquilly. \par
\tab\ldblquote We can at least run all gene patterns through the computer,\rdblquote  said Marco. \par
\tab\ldblquote To save anything we can get for our use?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote For any homological use, here or elsewhere. We must study gene patterns in action if we\rquote re to understand ourselves properly, and it is the abnormal and monstrous patterns that give us most information. Our experiments on autism have taught us more about homology than the sum total existing on the day we began.\rdblquote  \par
\tab William, who still liked the roll of the phrase \ldblquote the genetic physiology of man\rdblquote  rather than \ldblquote homology,\rdblquote  shook his head. \ldblquote Just the same, we\rquote ve got to play it carefully. However useful we can claim our experiments to be, we live on bare social permission, reluctantly given. We\rquote re playing with lives.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Useless lives. Fit for canceling.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote  A quick and pleasant canceling is one thing. Our experiments, usually long drawn out and sometimes unavoidably unpleasant, are another.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote We help them sometimes.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote  And we don\rquote t help them sometimes.\rdblquote  \par
\tab It\b  \b0 was a pointless argument, really, for there was no way of settling it. What it amounted to was that too few interesting abnormalities were available for homologists and there was no way of urging mankind to encourage a greater production. The trauma of the Catastrophe would never vanish in a dozen ways, including that one. \par
\tab The hectic push toward space exploration could be traced back (and was, by some sociologists) to the knowledge of the fragility of the life skein on the planet, thanks to the Catastrophe. \par
\tab Well, never mind\par
\tab There had never been anything like Randall Nowan. Not for William. The slow onset of autism characteristic of that totally rare gene pattern meant that more was known about Randall than about any equivalent patient before him. They even caught some last faint glimmers of his way of thought in the laboratory before he closed off altogether and shrank finally within the wall of his skin--unconcerned, unreachable. \par
\tab Then they began the slow process whereby Randall, subjected for increasing lengths of time to artificial stimuli, yielded up the inner workings of his brain and gave clues thereby to the inner workings of all brains, those that were called normal as well as those like his own. \par
\tab So vastly great was the data they were gathering that William began to feel his dream of reversing autism was more than merely a dream. He felt a warm gladness at having chosen the name Anti-Aut. \par
\tab And it was at almost the height of the euphoria induced by the work on Randall that he received the call from Dallas and that the heavy pressure began-- now, of all times-- to abandon his work and take on a new problem. \par
\tab Looking back on it later, he could never work out just what it was that finally led him to agree to visit Dallas. In the end, of course, he could see how fortunate it was-- but what had persuaded him to do so? Could he, even at the start, have had a dim unrealized notion of what it might come to? Surely, impossible. \par
\tab Was it the unrealized memory of that printout, that photograph of his brother? Surely, impossible. \par
\tab But he let himself be argued into that visit and it was only when the micro-pile power unit changed the pitch of its soft hum and the agrav unit took over for the final descent that he remembered that photograph--or at least that it moved into the conscious part of his memory. \par
\tab Anthony worked at Dallas and, William remembered now, at the Mercury Project. That was what the caption had referred to. He swallowed, as the soft jar told him the journey was over. This would be uncomfortable. \par
\par
\tab 3. \par
\par
\tab Anthony was waiting on the roof reception area to greet the incoming expert. Not he by himself, of course. He was part of a sizable delegation--the size itself a rather grim indication of the desperation to which they had been reduced--and he was among the lower echelons. That he was there at all was only because it was he who had made the original suggestion. \par
\tab He felt a slight, but continuing, uneasiness at the thought of that. He had put himself on the line. He had received considerable approval for it, but there had been the faint insistence always that it was \i his \i0 suggestion; and if it turned out to be a fiasco, every one of them would move out of the line of fire and leave him at point-zero. \par
\tab There were occasions, later, when he brooded over the possibility that the dim memory of a brother in homology had suggested his thought. That might have been, but it didn\rquote t have to be. The suggestion was so sensibly inevitable, really, that surely he would have had the same thought if his brother had been something as innocuous as a fantasy writer, or if he had had no brother of his own. \par
\tab The problem was the inner planets--The Moon and Mars were colonized. The larger asteroids and the satellites of Jupiter had been reached, and plans were in progress for a manned voyage to Titan, Saturn\rquote s large satellite, by way of an accelerating whirl about Jupiter. Yet even with plans in action for sending men on a seven-year round trip to the outer Solar System, there was still no chance of a manned approach to the inner planets, for fear of the Sun. \par
\tab Venus itself was the less attractive of the two worlds within Earth\rquote s orbit. Mercury, on the other hand\par
\tab Anthony had not yet joined the team when Dmitri Large (he was quite short, actually) had given the talk that had moved the World Congress sufficiently to grant the appropriation that made the Mercury Project possible. \par
\tab Anthony had listened to the tapes, and had heard Dmitri\rquote s presentation. Tradition was firm to the effect that it had been extemporaneous, and perhaps it was, but it was perfectly constructed and it held within it, in essence, every guideline followed by the Mercury Project since. \par
\tab And the chief point made was that it would be wrong to wait until the technology had advanced to the point where a manned expedition through the rigors of Solar radiation could become feasible. Mercury was a unique environment that could teach much, and from Mercury\rquote s surface sustained observations could be made of the Sun that could not be made in any other way. \par
\tab --Provided a man substitute-- a robot, in short-- could be placed on the planet. \par
\tab A robot with the required physical characteristics could be built. Soft landings were as easy as kiss-my-hand. Yet once a robot landed, what did one do with him next? \par
\tab He could make his observations and guide his actions on the basis of those observations, but the Project wanted his actions to be intricate and subtle, at least potentially, and they were not at all sure what observations he might make. \par
\tab To prepare for all reasonable possibilities and to allow for all the intricacy desired, the robot would need to contain a computer (some at Dallas referred to it as a \ldblquote brain,\rdblquote  but Anthony scorned that verbal habit-- perhaps because, he wondered later, the brain was his brother\rquote s field) sufficiently complex and versatile to fall into the same asteroid with a mammalian brain. \par
\tab Yet nothing like that could be constructed and made portable enough to be carried to Mercury and landed there-- or if carried and landed, to be mobile enough to be useful to the kind of robot they planned. Perhaps someday the positronic-path devices that the roboticists were playing with might make it possible, but that someday was not yet. \par
\tab The alternative was to have the robot send back to Earth every observation it made the moment it was made, and a computer on Earth could then guide his every action on the basis of those observations. The robot\rquote s body, in short, was to be there, and his brain here. \par
\tab Once that decision was reached, the key technicians were the telemetrists and it was then that Anthony joined the Project. He became one of those who labored to devise methods for receiving and returning impulses over distances of from 50 to 40 million miles, toward, and sometimes past, a Solar disk that could interfere with those impulses in a most ferocious manner. \par
\tab He took to his job with passion and (he finally thought) with skill and success. It\b  \b0 was he, more than anyone else, who had designed the three switching stations that had been hurled into permanent orbit about Mercury-- the Mercury Orbiters. Each of them was capable of sending and receiving impulses from Mercury to Earth and from Earth to Mercury. Each was capable of resisting, more or less permanently, the radiation from the Sun, and more than that, each could filter out Solar interference. \par
\tab Three equivalent Orbiters were placed at distance of a little over a million miles from Earth, reaching north and south of the plane of the Ecliptic so that they could receive the impulses from Mercury and relay them to Earth--or vice versa--even when Mercury was behind the Sun and inaccessible to direct reception from any station on Earth \lquote  s surface. \par
\tab Which left the robot itself; a marvelous specimen of the roboticists\rquote  and telemetrists\rquote  arts in combination. The most complex of ten successive models, it was capable, in a volume only a little over twice that of a man and five times his mass, of sensing and doing considerably more than a man-- if it could be guided. \par
\tab How complex a computer had to be to guide the robot made itself evident rapidly enough, however, as each response step had to be modified to allow for variations in possible perception. And as each response step itself enforced the certainty of greater complexity of possible variation in perceptions, the early steps had to be reinforced and made stronger. It built itself up endlessly, like a chess game, and the telemetrists began to use a computer to program the computer that designed the program for the computer that programmed the robot-controlling computer. \par
\tab There was nothing but confusion. The robot was at a base in the desert spaces of Arizona and in itself was working well. The computer in Dallas could not, however, handle him well enough; not even under perfectly known Earth conditions. How then\par
\tab Anthony remembered the day when he had made the suggestion. It was on 7-4-553. He remembered it, for one thing, because he remembered thinking that day that 7-4 had been an important holiday in the Dallas region of the world among the pre-Cats half a millennium before-- well, 553 years before, to be exact. \par
\tab It had been at dinner, and a good dinner, too. There had been a careful adjustment of the ecology of the region and the Project personnel had high priority in collecting the food supplies that became available--so there was an unusual degree of choice on the menus, and Anthony had tried roast duck. \par
\tab It was very good roast duck and it made him somewhat more expansive than usual. Everyone was in a rather self-expressive mood, in fact, and Ricardo said, \ldblquote We\rquote ll never do it. Let\rquote s admit it. We\rquote ll never do it.\rdblquote  \par
\tab There was no telling how many had thought such a thing how many times before, but it was a rule that no one said so openly. Open pessimism might be the final push needed for appropriations to stop (they had been coming with greater difficulty each year for five years now) and if there \i were \i0 a chance, it would be gone. \par
\tab Anthony, ordinarily not given to extraordinary optimism, but now reveling over his duck, said, \ldblquote Why can\rquote t we do it? Tell me why, and I\rquote ll refute it.\rdblquote  \par
\tab It was a direct challenge and Ricardo\rquote s dark eyes narrowed at once. \ldblquote You want me to tell you why?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I sure do.\rdblquote  Ricardo swung his chair around, facing Anthony full. He said, \ldblquote Come on, there\rquote s no mystery. Dmitri Large won\rquote t say so openly in any report, but you know and I know that to run Mercury Project properly, we\rquote ll need a computer as complex as a human brain whether it\rquote s on Mercury or here, and we can\rquote t build one. So where does that leave us except to play games with the World Congress and get money for make-work and possibly useful spin-offs?\rdblquote  \par
\tab And Anthony placed a complacent smile on his face and said, \ldblquote That\rquote s easy to refute. You\rquote ve given us the answer yourself.\rdblquote  (Was he playing games? Was it the warm feeling of duck in his stomach? The desire to tease Ricardo?...Or did some unfelt thought of his brother touch him? There was no way, later, that he could tell.) \par
\tab\ldblquote What answer?\rdblquote  Ricardo rose. He was quite tall and unusually thin and he always wore his white coat unseamed. He folded his arms and seemed to be doing his best to tower over the seated Anthony like an unfolded meter rule. \ldblquote What answer?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You say we need a computer as complex as a human brain. All right, then, we\rquote ll build one.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The point, you idiot, is that we can\rquote t--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote\i We \i0 can\rquote t. But there are others.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What others?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote People who work on brains, of course. We\rquote re just solid-state mechanics. We have no idea in what way a human brain is complex, or where, or to what extent. Why don\rquote t we get in a homologist and have \i him \i0 design a computer?\rdblquote  And with that Anthony took a huge helping of stuffing and savored it complacently. He could still remember, after all this time, the taste of the stuffing, though he couldn\rquote t remember in detail what had happened afterward. \par
\tab It seemed to him that no one had taken it seriously. There was laughter and a general feeling that Anthony had wriggled out of a hole by clever sophistry so that the laughter was at Ricardo\rquote s expense. (Afterward, of course, everyone claimed to have taken the suggestion seriously.) \par
\tab Ricardo blazed up, pointed a finger at Anthony, and said, \ldblquote Write that up. I \i dare \i0 you to put that suggestion in writing.\rdblquote  (At least, so Anthony\rquote s memory had it. Ricardo had, since then, stated his comment was an enthusiastic \ldblquote Good ideal Why don\rquote t you write it up formally, Anthony?\rdblquote ) \par
\tab Either way, Anthony put it in writing. \par
\tab Dmitri Large had taken to it. In private conference, he had slapped Anthony on the back and had said that he had been speculating in that direction himself-- though he did not offer to take any credit for it on the record. (Just in case it turned out to be a fiasco, Anthony thought.) \par
\tab Dmitri Large conducted the search for the appropriate homologist. It did not occur to Anthony that he ought to be interested. He knew neither homology nor homologists--except, of course, his brother, and he had not thought of him. Not consciously. \par
\tab So Anthony was up there in the reception area, in a minor role, when the door of the aircraft opened and several men got out and came down and in the course of the handshakes that began going round, he found himself staring at his own face. \par
\tab His cheeks burned and, with all his might, he wished himself a thousand miles away. \par
\par
\tab 4. \par
\par
\tab More than ever, William wished that the memory of his brother had come earlier. It should have....Surely it should have. \par
\tab But there had been the flattery of the request and the excitement that had begun to grow in him after a while. Perhaps he had deliberately avoided remembering. \par
\tab To begin with, there had been the exhilaration of Dmitri Large coming to see him in his own proper presence. He had come from Dallas to New York by plane and that had been very titillating for William, whose secret vice it was to read thrillers. In the thrillers, men and women always traveled mass-wise when secrecy was desired. After all, electronic travel was public property-- at least in the thrillers, where every radiation beam of whatever kind was invariably bugged. \par
\tab William had said so in a kind of morbid half attempt at humor, but Dmitri hadn\rquote t seemed to be listening. He was staring at William\rquote s face and his thoughts seemed elsewhere. \ldblquote I\rquote m sorry,\rdblquote  he said finally. \ldblquote You remind me of someone.\rdblquote  \par
\tab (And yet that hadn\rquote t given it away to William. How was that possible? he had eventual occasion to wonder.) \par
\tab Dmitri Large was a small plump man who seemed to be in a perpetual twinkle even when he declared himself worried or annoyed. He had a round and bulbous nose, pronounced cheeks, and softness everywhere. He emphasized his last name and said with a quickness that led William to suppose he said it often, \ldblquote Size is not all the large there is, my friend.\rdblquote  \par
\tab In the talk that followed, William protested much. He knew nothing about computers. Nothing! He had not the faintest idea of how they worked or how they were programmed. \par
\tab\ldblquote No matter, no matter,\rdblquote  Dmitri said, shoving the point aside with an expressive gesture of the hand. \i\ldblquote We \i0 know the computers; \i we \i0 can set up the programs. You just tell us what it is a computer must be made to do so that it will work like a brain and not like a computer.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m not sure I know enough about how a brain works to be able to tell you that, Dmitri,\rdblquote  said William. \par
\tab\ldblquote You are the foremost homologist in the world,\rdblquote  said Dmitri. \ldblquote I have checked that out carefully.\rdblquote  And that disposed of that. \par
\tab William listened with gathering gloom. He supposed it was inevitable. Dip a person into one particular specialty deeply enough and long enough, and he would automatically begin to assume that specialists in all other fields were magicians, judging the depth of their wisdom by the breadth of his own ignorance....And as time went on, William learned a great deal more of the Mercury Project than it seemed to him at the time that he cared to. \par
\tab He said at last, \ldblquote Why use a computer at all, then? Why not have one of your own men, or relays of them, receive the material from the robot and send back instructions.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, oh, oh,\rdblquote  said Dmitri, almost bouncing in his chair in his eagerness. \ldblquote You see, you are not aware. Men are too slow to analyze quickly all the material the robot will send back-- temperatures and gas pressures and cosmic-- ray fluxes and Solar-wind intensities and chemical compositions and soil textures and easily three dozen more items-- and then try to decide on the next step. A human being would merely \i guide \i0 the robot, and ineffectively; a computer would \i be \i0 the robot. \par
\tab\ldblquote And then, too,\rdblquote  he went on, \ldblquote men are too fast, also. It takes radiation of any kind anywhere from ten to twenty-two minutes to take the round trip between Mercury and Earth, depending on where each is in its orbit. Nothing can be done about that. You get an observation, you give an order, but much has happened between the time the observation is made and the response returns. Men can\rquote t adapt to the slowness of the speed of light, but a computer can take that into account....Come help us, William.\rdblquote  \par
\tab William said gloomily, \ldblquote You are certainly welcome to consult me, for what good that might do you. My private TV beam is at your service.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But it\rquote s not consultation I want. You must come with me.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Mass-wise?\rdblquote  said William, shocked. \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, of course. A project like this can\rquote t be carried out by sitting at opposite ends of a laser beam with a communications satellite in the middle. In the long run, it is too expensive, too inconvenient, and, of course, it lacks all privacy--\rdblquote  \par
\tab It \i was \i0 like a thriller, William decided. \ldblquote Come to Dallas,\rdblquote  said Dmitri, \ldblquote and let me show you what we have there. Let me show you the facilities. Talk to some of our computer men. Give them the benefit of your way of thought.\rdblquote  \par
\tab It was time, William thought, to be decisive. \ldblquote Dmitri,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote I have work of my own here. Important work that I do not wish to leave. To do what you want me to do may take me away from my laboratory for months.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Months!\rdblquote  said Dmitri, clearly taken aback. \ldblquote My good William, it may well be years. But surely it will be your work.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No, it will not. I know what my work is and guiding a robot on Mercury is not it.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Why not? If you do it properly, you will learn more about the brain merely by trying to make a computer work like one, and you will come back here, finally, better equipped to do what you now consider your work. And while you\rquote re gone, will you have no associates to carry on? And can you not be in constant communication with them by laser beam and television? And can you not visit New York on occasion? Briefly.\rdblquote  \par
\tab William was moved. The thought of working on the brain from another direction did hit home. From that point on, he found himself looking for excuses to go--at least to visit--at least to see what it was all like....He could always return. \par
\tab Then there followed Dmitri\rquote s visit to the ruins of Old New York, which he enjoyed with artless excitement (but then there was no more magnificent spectacle of the useless gigantism of the pre-Cats than Old New York).William began to wonder if the trip might not give him an opportunity to see some sights as well. \par
\tab He even began to think that for some time he had been considering the possibility of finding a new bedmate, and it would be more convenient to find one in another geographical area where he would not stay permanently. \par
\tab --Or was it that even then, when he knew nothing but the barest beginning of what was needed, there had already come to him, like the twinkle of a distant lightning flash, what might be done\par
\tab So he eventually went to Dallas and stepped out on the roof and there was Dmitri again, beaming. Then, with eyes narrowing, the little man turned and said, \ldblquote I \i knew--\i0 What a remarkable resemblance!\rdblquote  \par
\tab William\rquote s eyes opened wide and there, visibly shrinking backward, was enough of his own face to make him certain at once that Anthony was standing before him. \par
\tab He read very plainly in Anthony\rquote s face a longing to bury the relationship. All William needed to say was \ldblquote How remarkable!\rdblquote  and let it go. The gene patterns of mankind were complex enough, after all, to allow resemblances of any reasonable degree even without kinship. \par
\tab But of course William was a homologist and no one can work with the intricacies of the human brain without growing insensitive as to its details, so he said, \ldblquote I\rquote m sure this is Anthony, my brother.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Dmitri said, \ldblquote Your brother?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote My father,\rdblquote  said William, \ldblquote had two boys by the same woman--my mother. They were eccentric people.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He then stepped forward, hand outstretched, and Anthony had no choice but to take it....The incident was the topic of conversation, the only topic, for the next several days. \par
\par
\tab 5. \par
\par
\tab It was small consolation to Anthony that William was contrite enough when he realized what he had done. \par
\tab They sat together after dinner that night and William said, \ldblquote My apologies. I thought that if we got the worst out at once that would end it. It doesn\rquote t seem to have done so. I\rquote ve signed no papers, made no formal agreement. I will leave.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What good would that do?\rdblquote  said Anthony ungraciously. \ldblquote Everyone knows now. Two bodies and one face. It\rquote s enough to make one puke.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote If I leave--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You can\rquote t leave. This whole thing is my idea.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote To get me here?\rdblquote  William\rquote s heavy lids lifted as far as they might and his eyebrows climbed. \par
\tab\ldblquote No, of course not. To get a \i homologist \i0 here. How could I possibly know they would send \i you?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\i0\ldblquote But if I leave--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No. The only thing we can do now is to lick the problem, if it can be done. Then--it won\rquote t matter.\rdblquote  (Everything is forgiven those who succeed, he thought.) \par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t know that I can--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote We\rquote ll have to try. Dmitri will place it on us. It\rquote s too good a chance. You two are brothers,\rdblquote  Anthony said, mimicking Dmitri\rquote s tenor voice, \ldblquote and understand each other. Why not work together?\rdblquote  Then, in his own voice, angrily, \ldblquote So we must. To begin with, what is it you do, William? I mean, more precisely than the word \lquote homology\rquote  can explain by itself.\rdblquote  \par
\tab William sighed. \ldblquote Well, please accept my regrets....I work with autistic children.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m afraid I don\rquote t know what that means.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Without going into a long song and dance, I deal with children who do not reach out into the world, do not communicate with others, but who sink into themselves and exist behind a wall of skin, somewhat unreachably. I hope to be able to cure it someday.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Is that why you call yourself Anti-Aut?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, as a matter of fact.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Anthony laughed briefly, but he was not really amused. \par
\tab A chill crept into William\rquote s manner. \ldblquote It is an honest name.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m sure it is,\rdblquote  muttered Anthony hurriedly, and could bring himself to no more specific apology. With an effort, he restored the subject, \ldblquote  And are you making any progress?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Toward the cure? No, so far. Toward understanding, yes. And the more I understand--\rdblquote  William\rquote s voice grew warmer as he spoke and his eyes more distant. Anthony recognized it for what it was, the pleasure of speaking of what fills one\rquote s heart and mind to the exclusion of almost everything else. He felt it in himself often enough. \par
\tab He listened as closely as he might to something he didn\rquote t really understand, for it was necessary to do so. He would expect William to listen to him. \par
\tab How clearly he remembered it. He thought at the time he would not, but at the time, of course, he was not aware of what was happening. Thinking back, in the glare of hindsight, he found himself remembering whole sentences, virtually word for word. \par
\tab\ldblquote So it seemed to us,\rdblquote  William said, \ldblquote that the autistic child was not failing to receive the impressions, or even failing to interpret them in quite a sophisticated manner. He was, rather, disapproving them and rejecting them, without any loss of the potentiality of full communication if some impression could be found which he approved of.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Ah,\rdblquote  said Anthony, making just enough of a sound to indicate that he was listening. \par
\tab\ldblquote Nor can you persuade him out of his autism in any ordinary way, for he disapproves of \i you \i0 just as much as he disapproves of the rest of the world. But if you place him in conscious arrest--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote In what?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It is a technique we have in which, in effect, the brain is divorced from the body and can perform its functions without reference to the body. It is a rather sophisticated technique devised in our own laboratory; actually--\rdblquote  He paused. \par
\tab\ldblquote By yourself?\rdblquote  asked Anthony gently. \ldblquote Actually, yes,\rdblquote  said William, reddening slightly, but clearly pleased. \ldblquote In conscious arrest, we can supply the body with designed fantasies and observe the brain under differential electroencephalography. We can at once learn more about the autistic individual; what kind of sense impressions he most wants; and we learn more about the brain generally.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Ah,\rdblquote  said Anthony, and this time it was a real ah. \ldblquote And all this you have learned about brains-- can you not adapt it to the workings of a computer?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  said William. \ldblquote Not a chance. I told that to Dmitri. I know nothing about computers and not enough about brains.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote If I teach you about computers and tell you in detail what we need, what then?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It won\rquote t do. It--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Brother,\rdblquote  Anthony said, and he tried to make it an impressive word. \ldblquote You owe me something. Please make an honest attempt to give our problem some thought. Whatever you know about the brain--please adapt it to our computers.\rdblquote  \par
\tab William shifted uneasily, and said, \ldblquote I understand your position. I will try. I will honestly try.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab 6. \par
\par
\tab William \i had \i0 tried, and as Anthony had predicted, the two had been left to work together. At first they encountered others now and then and William had tried to use the shock value of the announcement that they were brothers since there was no use in denial. Eventually that stopped, however, and there came to be a purposeful non-interference. When William approached Anthony, or Anthony approached William, anyone else who might be present faded silently into the walls. \par
\tab They even grew used to each other after a fashion and sometimes spoke to each other almost as though there were no resemblance between them at all and no childish memories in common. \par
\tab Anthony made the computer requirements plain in reasonably non-technical language and William, after long thought, explained how it seemed to him a computer might do the work, more or less, of a brain. \par
\tab Anthony said, \ldblquote Would that be possible?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t know,\rdblquote  said William. \ldblquote I am not eager to try. It may not work. But it may.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote We\rquote  d have to talk to Dmitri Large.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Let\rquote s talk it over ourselves first and see what we\rquote ve got. We can go to him with as reasonable a proposition as we can put together. Or else, not go to him.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Anthony hesitated, \ldblquote We \i both \i0 go to him?\rdblquote  William said delicately, \ldblquote You be my spokesman. There is no reason that we need be seen together.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Thank you, William. If anything comes of this, you will get full credit from me.\rdblquote  \par
\tab William said, \ldblquote I have no worries about that. If there is anything to this, I will be the only one who can make it work, I suppose.\rdblquote  \par
\tab They thrashed it out through four or five meetings and if Anthony hadn\rquote t been kin and if there hadn\rquote t been that sticky, emotional situation between them, William would have been uncomplicatedly proud of the younger-brother--for his quick understanding of an alien field. \par
\tab There were then long conferences with Dmitri Large. There were, in fact, conferences with everyone. Anthony saw them through endless days, and then they came to see William separately. And eventually, through an agonizing pregnancy, what came to be called the Mercury Computer was authorized. \par
\tab William then returned to New York with some relief. He did not plan to stay in New York (would he have thought that possible two months earlier?) but there was much to do at the Homological Institute. \par
\tab More conferences were necessary, of course, to explain to his own laboratory group what was happening and why he had to take leave and how they were to continue their own projects without him. Then there was a much more elaborate arrival at Dallas with the essential equipment and with two young aides for what would have to be an open-ended stay. \par
\tab Nor did William even look back, figuratively speaking. His own laboratory and its needs faded from his thoughts. He was now thoroughly committed to his new task. \par
\par
\tab 7. \par
\par
\tab It was the worst period for Anthony. The relief during William\rquote s absence had not penetrated deep and there began the nervous agony of wondering whether perhaps, hope against hope, he might not return. Might he not choose to send a deputy, someone else, anyone else? Anyone with a different face so that Anthony need not feel the half of a two-backed four-legged monster? \par
\tab But it \i was \i0 William. Anthony had watched the freight plane come silently through the air, had watched it unload from a distance. But even from that distance he eventually saw William. \par
\tab That was that. Anthony left. He went to see Dmitri that afternoon. \ldblquote It\rquote s not necessary, Dmitri, for me to stay, surely. We\rquote ve worked out the details and someone else can take over.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No, no,\rdblquote  said Dmitri. \ldblquote The idea was yours in the first place. You must see it through. There is no point in needlessly dividing the credit.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Anthony thought: No one else will take the risk. There\rquote s still the chance of fiasco. I might have known. \par
\tab He \i had \i0 known, but he said stolidly, \ldblquote You understand I cannot work with William.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But why not?\rdblquote  Dmitri pretended surprise. \ldblquote You have been doing so well together.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I have been straining my guts over it, Dmitri, and they won\rquote t take any more. Don\rquote t you suppose I know how it looks?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote My good fellow! You make too much of it. Sure the men stare. They are human, after all. But they\rquote ll get used to it. \i I\rquote m \i0 used to it.\rdblquote  \par
\tab You are not, you fat liar, Anthony thought. He said, \i\ldblquote I\rquote m not \i0 used to it.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote re not looking at it properly. Your parents were peculiar--but after all, what they did wasn\rquote t illegal, only peculiar, \i only \i0 peculiar. It\rquote s not your fault, or William\rquote s. Neither of you is to blame.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote We carry the mark,\rdblquote  said Anthony, making a quick curving gesture of his hand to his face. \par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s not the mark you think. I see differences. You are distinctly younger in appearance. Your hair is wavier. It\rquote s only at first glance that there is a similarity. Come, Anthony, there will be all the time you want, all the help you need, all the equipment you can use. I\rquote m sure it will work marvelously. Think of the satisfaction--\rdblquote  \par
\tab Anthony weakened, of course, and agreed at least to help William set up the equipment. William; too, seemed sure it would work marvelously. Not as frenetically as Dmitri did, but with a kind of calmness. \par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s only a matter of the proper connections,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote though I must admit that that\rquote s quite a huge \lquote only.\rquote  Your end of it will be to arrange sensory impressions on an independent screen so that we can exert-- well, I can\rquote t say manual control, can I?--so that we can exert intellectual control to override, if necessary.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That can be done,\rdblquote  said Anthony. \ldblquote Then let\rquote s get going....Look, I\rquote ll need a week at least to arrange the connections and make sure of the instructions--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Programming, \ldblquote  said Anthony. \ldblquote Well, this is your place, so I\rquote ll use your terminology. My assistants and I will \i program \i0 the Mercury Computer, but not in your fashion.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I should hope not. We would want a homologist to set up a much more subtle program than anything a mere telemetrist could do.\rdblquote  He did not try to hide the self-hating irony in his words. \par
\tab William let the tone go and accepted the words. He said, \ldblquote Well begin simply. We\rquote ll have the robot walk.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab 8. \par
\par
\tab A week later, the robot walked in Arizona, a thousand miles away. He walked stiffly, and sometimes he fell down, and sometimes he clanked his ankle against an obstruction, and sometimes he whirled on one foot and went off in a surprising new direction. \par
\tab\ldblquote He\rquote s a baby, learning to walk,\rdblquote  said William. Dmitri came occasionally, to learn of progress. \ldblquote That\rquote s remarkable,\rdblquote  he would say. \par
\tab Anthony didn\rquote t think so. Weeks passed, then months. The robot had progressively done more and more, as the Mercury Computer had been placed, progressively, under a more and more complex programming. (William had a tendency to refer to the Mercury Computer as a brain, but Anthony wouldn\rquote t allow it.) And all that happened wasn\rquote t good enough. \par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s not good enough, William,\rdblquote  he said finally. He had not slept the night before. \par
\tab\ldblquote Isn\rquote t that strange?\rdblquote  said William coolly. \ldblquote I was going to say that I thought we had it about beaten.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Anthony held himself together with difficulty. The strain of working with William and of watching the robot fumble was more than he could bear. \ldblquote I\rquote m going to resign, William. The whole job. I\rquote m sorry....It\rquote s not you.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But it \i is \i0 I, Anthony.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It isn\rquote t \i all \i0 you, William. It\rquote s failure. We won\rquote t make it. You see how clumsily the robot handles himself, even though he\rquote s on Earth, only a thousand miles away, with the signal round trip only a tiny fraction of a second in time. On Mercury, there will be minutes of delay, minutes for which the Mercury Computer will have to allow. It\rquote s madness to think it will work.\rdblquote  \par
\tab William said, \ldblquote Don\rquote t resign, Anthony. You can\rquote t resign now. I suggest we have the robot sent to Mercury. I\rquote m convinced he\rquote s ready.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Anthony laughed loudly and insultingly. \ldblquote You\rquote re crazy, William.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m not. You seem to think it will be harder on Mercury, but it won\rquote t be. It\rquote s harder on Earth. This robot is designed for one-third Earth-normal gravity, and he\rquote s working in Arizona at full gravity. He\rquote s designed for 400\'b0 C, and he\rquote s got 300\'b0 C. He\rquote s designed for vacuum and he\rquote s working in an atmospheric soup.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That robot can take the difference.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The metal structure can, I suppose, but what about the Computer right here? It doesn\rquote t work well with a robot that isn\rquote t in the environment he\rquote s designed for....Look, Anthony, if you want a computer that is as complex as a brain, you have to allow for idiosyncrasies....Come, let\rquote s make a deal. If you will push, with me, to have the robot sent to Mercury, that will take six months, and I will take a sabbatical for that period. You will be rid of me.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Who\rquote ll take care of the Mercury Computer?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote By now you understand how it works, and I\rquote ll have my two men here to help you.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Anthony shook his head defiantly. \ldblquote I can\rquote t take the responsibility for the Computer, and I won\rquote t take the responsibility for suggesting that the robot be sent to Mercury. It won\rquote t work.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m \i sure \i0 it will.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You can\rquote t be sure. And the responsibility is mine. I\rquote m the one who\rquote ll bear the blame. It will be nothing to you.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Anthony later remembered this as a crucial moment. William might have let it go. Anthony would have resigned. All would have been lost. \par
\tab But William said, \ldblquote Nothing to me? Look, Dad had this thing about Mom. All right. I\rquote m sorry, too. I\rquote m as sorry as anyone can be, but it\rquote s \i done, \i0 and there\rquote s something funny that has resulted. When I speak of Dad, I mean your Dad, too, and there\rquote s lots of pairs of people who can say that: two brothers, two sisters, a brother and sister. And then when I say Mom, I mean \i your \i0 Mom, and there are lots of pairs who can say that, too. But I don\rquote t know any other pair, nor have I heard of any other pair, who can share both Dad \i and \i0 Mom.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I know that,\rdblquote  said Anthony grimly. \ldblquote Yes, but look at it from my standpoint,\rdblquote  said William hurriedly. \ldblquote I\rquote m a homologist. I work with gene patterns. Have you ever thought of our gene patterns? We share both parents, which means that our gene patterns are closer together than any other pair on this planet. Our very faces show it.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I know that, too.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote So that if this project were to work, and if you were to gain glory from it, it would be your gene pattern that would have been proven highly useful to mankind--and that would mean very much my gene pattern as well....Don\rquote t you see, Anthony? I share your parents, your face, your gene pattern, and therefore either your glory or your disgrace. \b It \b0 is mine almost as much as yours, and if any credit or blame adheres to me, it is yours almost as much as mine, too. I\rquote ve \i got \i0 to be interested in your success. I\rquote ve a motive for that which no one else on Earth has-- a purely selfish one, one so selfish you can be sure it\rquote s there. I\rquote m on your side, Anthony, because you\rquote re very nearly me!\rdblquote  \par
\tab They looked at each other for a long time, and for the first time, Anthony did so without noticing the face he shared. \par
\tab William said, \ldblquote So let us ask that the robot be sent to Mercury.\rdblquote  \par
\tab And Anthony gave in. And after Dmitri had approved the request -- he had been waiting to, after all-- Anthony spent much of the day in deep thought. \par
\tab Then he sought out William and said, \ldblquote Listen!\rdblquote  \par
\tab There was a long pause which William did not break. Anthony said again, \ldblquote Listen!\rdblquote  William waited patiently. \par
\tab Anthony said, \ldblquote There\rquote s really no need for you to leave. I\rquote m sure you wouldn\rquote t like to have the Mercury Computer tended by anyone but yourself.\rdblquote  \par
\tab William said, \ldblquote You mean \i you \i0 intend to leave?\rdblquote  Anthony said, \ldblquote No, I\rquote ll stay, too.\rdblquote  \par
\tab William said, \ldblquote We needn\rquote t see much of each other.\rdblquote  \par
\tab All of this had been, for Anthony, like speaking with a pair of hands clenched about his windpipe. The pressure seemed to tighten now, but he managed the hardest statement of all. \par
\tab\ldblquote We don\rquote t have to avoid each other. We don\rquote t have to.\rdblquote  \par
\tab William smiled rather uncertainly. Anthony didn\rquote t smile at all; he left quickly. \par
\par
\tab 9. \par
\par
\tab William looked up from his book. It was at least a month since he had ceased being vaguely surprised at having Anthony enter. \par
\tab He said, \ldblquote  Anything wrong?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Who can say? They\rquote re coming in for the soft landing. Is the Mercury Computer in action?\rdblquote  \par
\tab William knew Anthony knew the Computer status perfectly, but he said, \ldblquote By tomorrow morning, Anthony.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote  And there are no problems?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote None at all.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Then we have to wait for the soft landing.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Anthony said, \ldblquote Something will go wrong.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Rocketry is surely an old hand at this. Nothing will go wrong.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote So much work wasted.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s not wasted yet. It won\rquote t be.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Anthony said, \ldblquote Maybe you\rquote re right.\rdblquote  Hands deep in his pockets, he drifted away, stopping at the door just before touching contact. \ldblquote Thanks!\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote For what, Anthony?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote For being-- comforting.\rdblquote  \par
\tab William smiled wryly and was relieved his emotions didn\rquote t show. \par
\par
\tab 10. \par
\par
\tab Virtually the entire body of personnel of the Mercury Project was on hand for the crucial moment. Anthony, who had no tasks to perform, remained well to the rear, his eyes on the monitors. The robot had been activated and there were visual messages being returned. \par
\tab At least they came out as the equivalent of visual--and they showed as yet nothing but a dim glow of light which was, presumably, Mercury\rquote s surface. \par
\tab Shadows flitted across the screen, probably irregularities on that surface. Anthony couldn\rquote t tell by eye alone, but those at the controls, who were analyzing the data by methods more subtle than could be disposed of by unaided eye, seemed calm. None of the little red lights that might have betokened emergency were lighting. Anthony was watching the key observers rather than the screen. \par
\tab He should be down with William and the others at the Computer. It was going to be thrown in only when the soft landing was made. He \i should \i0 be. He \i couldn\rquote t \i0 be. \par
\tab The shadows flitted across the screen more rapidly. The robot was descending-- too quickly? Surely, too quickly! \par
\tab There was a last blur and a steadiness, a shift of focus in which the blur grew darker, then fainter. A sound was heard and there were perceptible seconds before Anthony realized what it was the sound was saying--\rdblquote Soft landing achieved! Soft landing achieved!\rdblquote  \par
\tab Then a murmur arose and became an excited hum of self-congratulation until one more change took place on the screen and the sound of human words and laughter was stopped as though there had been a smash collision against a wall of silence. \par
\tab For the screen changed; changed and grew sharp. In the brilliant, brilliant sunlight, blazing through the carefully filtered screen, they could now see a boulder clear, burning white on one side, ink-on-ink on the other. It shifted right, then back to left, as though a pair of eyes were looking left, then right. A metal hand appeared on the screen as though the eyes were looking at part of itself. \par
\tab It was Anthony\rquote s voice that cried out at last, \ldblquote The Computer\rquote s been thrown in.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He heard the words as though someone else had shouted them and he raced out and down the stairs and through a Corridor, leaving the babble of voices to rise behind him. \par
\tab\ldblquote William,\rdblquote  he cried as he burst into the Computer room, \ldblquote it\rquote s \i perfect, \i0 it\rquote s--\rdblquote  \par
\tab But William\rquote s hand was upraised. \ldblquote Shh. Please. I don\rquote t want any violent sensations entering except those from the robot.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You mean we can be heard?\rdblquote  whispered Anthony. \par
\tab\ldblquote Maybe not, but I don\rquote t know.\rdblquote  There was another screen, a smaller one, in the room with the Mercury Computer. The scene on it was different, and changing; the robot was moving. \par
\tab William said, \ldblquote The robot is feeling its way. Those steps have got to be clumsy. There\rquote s a seven-minute delay between stimulus and response and that has to be allowed for.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But already he\rquote s walking more surely than he ever did in Arizona. Don\rquote t you think so, William? Don\rquote t you think so?\rdblquote  Anthony was gripping William\rquote s shoulder, shaking it, eyes never leaving the screen. \par
\tab William said, \ldblquote I\rquote m sure of it, Anthony.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The Sun burned down in a warm contrasting world of white and black, of white Sun against black sky and white rolling ground mottled with black shadow. The bright sweet smell of the Sun on every exposed square centimeter of metal contrasting with the creeping death-of-aroma on the other side. \par
\tab He lifted his hand and stared at it, counting the fingers. Hot-hot-hot\-\-\---turning, putting each finger, one by one, into the shadow of the others and the hot slowly dying in a change in tactility that made him feel the clean, comfortable vacuum. \par
\tab Yet not entirely vacuum. He straightened and lifted both arms over his head, stretching them out, and the sensitive spots on either wrist felt the vapors-- the thin, faint touch of tin and lead rolling through the cloy of mercury. \par
\tab The thicker taste rose from his feet; the silicates of each variety, marked by the clear separate-and-together touch and tang of each metal ion. He moved one foot slowly through the crunchy, caked dust, and felt the changes like a soft, not quite random symphony. \par
\tab And over all the Sun. He looked up at it, large and fat and bright and hot, and heard its joy. He watched the slow rise of prominences around its rim and listened to the crackling sound of each; and to the other happy noises over the broad face. When he dimmed the background light, the red of the rising wisps of hydrogen showed in bursts of mellow contralto, and the deep bass of the spots amid the muted whistling of the wispy, moving faculae, and the occasional thin keening of a flare, the ping-pong ticking of gamma rays and cosmic particles, and over all in every direction the soft, fainting, and ever-renewed sigh of the Sun\rquote s substance rising and retreating forever in a cosmic wind which reached out and bathed him in glory. \par
\tab He jumped, and rose slowly in the air with a freedom he had never felt, and jumped again when he landed, and ran, and jumped, and ran again, with a body that responded perfectly to this glorious world, this paradise in which he found himself. \par
\tab A stranger so long and so lost-- in paradise at last. \par
\tab William said, \ldblquote It\rquote s all right.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But what\rquote s he doing?\rdblquote  cried out Anthony. \par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s \i all right. \i0 The programming is working. He has tested his senses. He has been making the various visual observations. He has dimmed the Sun and studied it. He has tested for atmosphere and for the chemical nature of the soil. It all works.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But why is he running?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I rather think that\rquote s his own idea, Anthony. If you want to program a computer as complicated as a brain, you\rquote ve got to expect it to have ideas of its own.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Running? Jumping?\rdblquote  Anthony turned an anxious face to William. \ldblquote He\rquote ll hurt himself. You can handle the Computer. Override. Make him stop.\rdblquote  \par
\tab And William said sharply, \ldblquote No. I won\rquote t. I\rquote ll take the chance of his hurting himself. Don\rquote t you understand? He\rquote s \i happy. \i0 He was on Earth, a world he was never equipped to handle. Now he\rquote s on Mercury with a body perfectly adapted to its environment, as perfectly adapted as a hundred specialized scientists could make it be. It\rquote s paradise for him; let him enjoy it.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Enjoy? He\rquote s a robot.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m not talking about the robot. I\rquote m talking about the brain--the \i brain--\i0 that\rquote s\i  \i0 living \i here.\i0\rdblquote\i  \par
\tab\i0 The Mercury Computer, enclosed in glass, carefully and delicately wired, its integrity most subtly preserved, breathed and lived. \par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s Randall who\rquote s in paradise,\rdblquote  said William. \ldblquote He\rquote s found the world for whose sake he autistically fled this one. He has a world his new body fits perfectly in exchange for the world his old body did not fit at all.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Anthony watched the screen in wonder. \ldblquote He seems to be quieting.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Of course,\rdblquote  said William, \ldblquote and he\rquote ll do his job all the better for his joy.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Anthony smiled and said, \ldblquote We\rquote ve done it, then, you and I? Shall we join the rest and let them fawn on us, William?\rdblquote  \par
\tab William said, \ldblquote Together?\rdblquote  \par
\tab And Anthony linked arms. \ldblquote Together, brother!\rdblquote  \par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Light Verse \par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\tab The very last person anyone would expect to be a murderer was Mrs. Avis Lardner. Widow of the great astronaut-martyr, she was a philanthropist, an art collector, a hostess extraordinary, and, everyone agreed, an artistic genius. But above all, she was the gentlest and kindest human being one could imagine. \par
\tab Her husband, William J. Lardner, died, as we all know, of the effects of radiation from a solar flare, after he had deliberately remained in space so that a passenger vessel might make it safely to Space Station 5. \par
\tab Mrs. Lardner had received a generous pension for that, and she had then invested wisely and well. By late middle age she was very wealthy. \par
\tab Her house was a showplace, a veritable museum, containing a small but extremely select collection of extraordinarily beautiful jeweled objects. From a dozen different cultures she had obtained relics of almost every conceivable artifact that could be embedded with jewels and made to serve the aristocracy of that culture. She had one of the first jeweled wristwatches manufactured in America, a jeweled dagger from Cambodia, a jeweled pair of spectacles from Italy, and so on almost endlessly. \par
\tab All was open for inspection. The artifacts were not insured, and there were no ordinary security provisions. There was no need for anything conventional, for Mrs. Lardner maintained a large staff of robot servants, all of whom could be relied on to guard every item with imperturbable concentration, irreproachable honesty, and irrevocable efficiency. \par
\tab Everyone knew the existence of those robots and there is no record of any attempt at theft, ever. \par
\tab And then, of course, there was her light-sculpture. How Mrs. Lardner discovered her own genius at the art, no guest at her many lavish entertainments could guess. On each occasion, however, when her house was thrown open to guests, a new symphony of light shone throughout the rooms; three-dimensional curves and solids in melting color, some pure and some fusing in startling, crystalline effects that bathed every guest in wonder and somehow always adjusted itself so as to make Mrs. Lardner\rquote s blue-white hair and soft, unlined face gently beautiful. \par
\tab It was for the light-sculpture more than anything else that the guests came. It was never the same twice, and never failed to explore new experimental avenues of art. Many people who could afford light-consoles prepared light-sculptures for amusement, but no one could approach Mrs. Lardner\rquote s expertise. Not even those who considered themselves professional artists. \par
\tab She herself was charmingly modest about it. \ldblquote No, no,\rdblquote  she would protest when someone waxed lyrical. \ldblquote I wouldn\rquote t call it \lquote poetry in light.\rquote  That\rquote s far too kind. At most, I would say it was mere \lquote light verse.\rquote\ldblquote  And everyone smiled at her gentle wit. \par
\tab Though she was often asked, she would never create light-sculpture for any occasion but her own parties. \ldblquote That would be commercialization,\rdblquote  she said. \par
\tab She had no objection, however, to the preparation of elaborate holograms of her sculptures so that they might be made permanent and reproduced in museums of art an over the world. Nor was there ever a charge for any use that might be made of her light-sculptures. \par
\tab\ldblquote I couldn\rquote t ask a penny,\rdblquote  she said, spreading her arms wide. \ldblquote It\rquote s free to all. After all, I have no further use for it myself.\rdblquote  It was truer She never used the same light-sculpture twice. \par
\tab When the holograms were taken, she was cooperation itself. Watching benignly at every step, she was always ready to order her robot servants to help. \ldblquote Please, Courtney,\rdblquote  she would say, \ldblquote would you be so kind as to adjust the step ladder?\rdblquote  \par
\tab It was her fashion. She always addressed her robots with the most formal courtesy. \par
\tab Once, years before, she had been almost scolded by a government functionary from the Bureau of Robots and Mechanical Men. \ldblquote You can\rquote t do that,\rdblquote  he said severely. \ldblquote It interferes with their efficiency. They are constructed to follow orders, and the more clearly you give those orders, the more efficiently they follow them. When you ask with elaborate politeness, it is difficult for them to understand that an order is being given. They react more slowly.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Mrs. Lardner lifted her aristocratic head. \ldblquote I do not ask for speed and efficiency,\rdblquote  she said. \ldblquote I ask goodwill. My robots love me.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The government functionary might have explained that robots cannot love, but he withered under her hurt but gentle glance. \par
\tab It was notorious that Mrs. Lardner never even returned a robot to the factory for adjustment. Their positronic brains are enormously complex, and once in ten times or so the adjustment is not perfect as it leaves the factory. Sometimes the error does not show up for a period of time, but whenever it does, u. S. Robots and Mechanical Men, Inc., always makes the adjustment free of charge. \par
\tab Mrs. Lardner shook her head. \ldblquote Once a robot is in my house,\rdblquote  she said, \ldblquote and has performed his duties, any minor eccentricities must be borne with. I will not have him manhandled.\rdblquote  \par
\tab It was the worse thing possible to try to explain that a robot was but a machine. She would say very stiffly, \ldblquote Nothing that is as intelligent as a robot can ever be \i but \i0 a machine. I treat them as people.\rdblquote  \par
\tab And that was that! \par
\tab She kept even Max, although he was almost helpless. He could scarcely understand what was expected of him. Mrs. Lardner denied that strenuously, however. \ldblquote Not at all,\rdblquote  she would say firmly. \ldblquote He can take hats and coats and store them very well, indeed. He can hold objects for me. He can do many things.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But why not have him adjusted?\rdblquote  asked a friend, once. \par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, I couldn\rquote t. He\rquote s himself. He\rquote s very lovable, you know. After all, a positronic brain is so complex that no one can ever tell in just what way it\rquote s off. If he were made perfectly normal there would be no way to adjust him back to the lovability he now has. I won\rquote t give that up.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But if he\rquote s maladjusted,\rdblquote  said the friend, looking at Max nervously, \ldblquote might he not be dangerous?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Never,\rdblquote  laughed Mrs. Lardner. \ldblquote I\rquote ve had him for years. He\rquote s completely harmless and quite a dear.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Actually he looked like all the other robots, smooth, metallic, vaguely human but expressionless. \par
\tab To the gentle Mrs. Lardner, however, they were all individual, all sweet, all lovable. It was the kind of woman she was. \par
\tab How could she commit murder? \par
\par
\tab The very last person anyone would expect to be murdered would be John Semper Travis. Introverted and gentle, he was in the world but not of it. He had that peculiar mathematical turn of mind that made it possible for him to work out in his mind the complicated tapestry of the myriad positronic brain-paths in a robot\rquote s mind. \par
\tab He was chief engineer of U.S. Robots and Mechanical Men, Inc. \par
\tab But he was also an enthusiastic amateur in light-sculpture. He had written a book on the subject, trying to show that the type of mathematics he used in working out positronic brain-paths might be modified into a guide to the production of aesthetic light-sculpture. \par
\tab His attempt at putting theory into practice was a dismal failure, however. The sculptures he himself produced, following his mathematical principles, were stodgy, mechanical, and uninteresting. \par
\tab It was the only reason for unhappiness in his quiet, introverted, and secure life, and yet it was reason enough for him to be very unhappy indeed. He \i knew \i0 his theories were right, yet he could not make them work. If he could but produce \i one \i0 great piece of light-sculpture--\par
\tab Naturally, he knew of Mrs. Lardner\rquote s light-sculpture. She was universally hailed as a genius, yet Travis knew she could not understand even the simplest aspect of robotic mathematics. He had corresponded with her but she consistently refused to explain her methods, and he wondered if she had any at all. Might it not be mere intuition? --but even intuition might be reduced to mathematics. Finally he managed to receive an invitation to one of her parties. He simply had to see her. \par
\tab Mr. Travis arrived rather late. He had made one last attempt at a piece of light-sculpture and had failed dismally. \par
\tab He greeted Mrs. Lardner with a kind of puzzled respect and said, \ldblquote That was a peculiar robot who took my hat and coat.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That is Max,\rdblquote  said Mrs. Lardner. \par
\tab\ldblquote He is quite maladjusted, and he\rquote s a fairly old model. How is it you did not return it to the factory?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, no,\rdblquote  said Mrs. Lardner. \ldblquote It would be too much trouble.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote None at all, Mrs. Lardner,\rdblquote  said Travis. \ldblquote You would be surprised how simple a task it was. Since I am with U. S. Robots, I took the liberty of adjusting him myself. It took no time and you\rquote ll find he is now in perfect working order.\rdblquote  \par
\tab A queer change came over Mrs. Lardner\rquote s face. Fury found a place on it for the first time in her gentle life, and it was as though the lines did not know how to form. \par
\tab\ldblquote You adjusted him?\rdblquote  she shrieked. \ldblquote But it was \i he \i0 who created my light-sculptures. It was the maladjustment, the \i maladjustment, \i0 which you can never restore, that--that--\rdblquote  \par
\tab It was really unfortunate that she had been showing her collection at the time and that the jeweled dagger from Cambodia was on the marble tabletop before her. \par
\tab Travis\rquote s face was also distorted. \ldblquote You mean if I had studied his uniquely maladjusted positronic brain-paths I might have learned--\rdblquote  \par
\tab She lunged with the knife too quickly for anyone to stop her and he did not try to dodge. Some said he came to meet it--as though he \i wanted \i0 to die. \par
\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Segregationist\par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\cf2\tab The surgeon looked up without expression. \ldblquote Is he ready?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Ready is a relative term,\rdblquote  said the med-eng. \i\ldblquote We\rquote re \i0 ready. He\rquote s restless.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote They always are. . . . Well, it\rquote s a serious operation.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Serious or not, he should be thankful. He\rquote s been chosen for it over an enormous number of possibles and frankly, I don\rquote t think . . .\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Don\rquote t say it,\rdblquote  said the surgeon. \ldblquote The decision is not ours to make.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote We accept it. But do we have to agree?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  said the surgeon, crisply. \ldblquote We agree. Completely and wholeheart\-edly. The operation is entirely too intricate to approach with mental reserva\-tions. This man has proven his worth in a number of ways and his profile is suitable for the Board of Mortality.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote All right,\rdblquote  said the med-eng, unmollified.\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 The surgeon said, \ldblquote I\rquote ll see him right in here, I think. It is small enough and personal enough to be comforting.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote It won\rquote t help. He\rquote s nervous, and he\rquote s made up his mind.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Has he indeed?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Yes. He wants metal; they always do.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 The surgeon\rquote s face did not change expression. He stared at his hands. \ldblquote Sometimes one can talk them out of it.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Why bother?\rdblquote  said the med-eng, indifferently. \ldblquote If he wants metal, let it be metal.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote You don\rquote t care?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Why should I?\rdblquote  The med-eng said it almost brutally. \ldblquote Either way it\rquote s a\cf0  \cf2 medical engineering problem and I\rquote m a medical engineer. Either way, I can handle it. Why should I go beyond that?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 The surgeon said stolidly, \ldblquote To me, it is a matter of the fitness of things.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Fitness! You can\rquote t use that as an argument. What does the patient care about the fitness of things?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote I care.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote You care in a minority. The trend is against you. You have no chance.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote I have to try.\rdblquote  The surgeon waved the med-eng into silence with a quick wave of his hand--no impatience to it, merely quickness. He had already informed the nurse and he had already been signaled concerning her ap\-proach. He pressed a small button and the double-door pulled swiftly apart. The patient moved inward in his motorchair, the nurse stepping briskly along beside him.\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote You may go, nurse,\rdblquote  said the surgeon, \ldblquote but wait outside. I will be calling you.\rdblquote  He nodded to the med-eng, who left with the nurse, and the door closed behind them.\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 The man in the chair looked over his shoulder and watched them go. His neck was scrawny and there were fine wrinkles about his eyes. He was freshly shaven and the fingers of his hands, as they gripped the arms of the chair tightly, showed manicured nails. He was a high-priority patient and he was being taken care of. ... But there was a look of settled peevishness on his face.\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 He said, \ldblquote Will we be starting today?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 The surgeon nodded. \ldblquote This afternoon, Senator.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote I understand it will take weeks.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Not for the operation itself, Senator. But there are a number of subsid\-iary points to be taken care of. There are some circulatory renovations that must be carried through, and hormonal adjustments. These are tricky things.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Are they dangerous?\rdblquote  Then, as though feeling the need for establishing a friendly relationship, but patently against his will, he added, \ldblquote . . . doc\-tor?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 The surgeon paid no attention to the nuances of expression. He said, flatly, \ldblquote Everything is dangerous. We take our time in order that it be less dangerous. It is the time required, the skill of many individuals united, the equipment, that makes such operations available to so few...\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote I know that,\rdblquote  said the patient, restlessly. \ldblquote I refuse to feel guilty about that. Or are you implying improper pressure?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Not at all, Senator. The decisions of the Board have never been ques\-tioned. I mention the difficulty and intricacy of the operation merely to explain my desire to have it conducted in the best fashion possible.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Well, do so, then. That is my desire, also.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Then I must ask you to make a decision. It is possible to supply you with either of two types of cyber-hearts, metal or . . .\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Plastic!\rdblquote  said the patient, irritably. \ldblquote Isn\rquote t that the alternative you were going to offer, doctor? Cheap plastic. I don\rquote t want that. I\rquote ve made my choice. I want the metal.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote But . . .\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote See here. I\rquote ve been told the choice rests with me. Isn\rquote t that so?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 The surgeon nodded. \ldblquote Where two alternate procedures are of equal value from a medical standpoint, the choice rests with the patient. In actual practice, the choice rests with the patient even when the alternate proce\-dures are \i not \i0 of equal value, as in this case.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 The patient\rquote s eyes narrowed. \ldblquote Are you trying to tell me the plastic heart is superior?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote It depends on the patient. In my opinion, in your individual case, it is. And we prefer not to use the term, plastic. It is a fibrous cyber-heart.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote It\rquote s plastic as far as I am concerned.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Senator,\rdblquote  said the surgeon, infinitely patient, \ldblquote the material is not plastic in the ordinary sense of the word. It is a polymeric material true, but one that is far more complex than ordinary plastic. It is a complex protein-like fibre designed to imitate, as closely as possible, the natural structure of the human heart you now have within your chest.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Exactly, and the human heart I now have within my chest is worn out although I am not yet sixty years old. I don\rquote t want another one like it, thank you. I want something better.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote We all want something better for you, Senator. The fibrous cyber-heart will be better. It has a potential life of centuries. It is absolutely non-allergenic ...\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Isn\rquote t that so for the metallic heart, too?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Yes, it is,\rdblquote  said the surgeon. \ldblquote The metallic cyber is of titanium alloy that . . .\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote And it doesn\rquote t wear out? And it is stronger than plastic? Or fibre or whatever you want to call it?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote The metal is physically stronger, yes, but mechanical strength is not a point at issue. Its mechanical strength does you no particular good since the heart is well protected. Anything capable of reaching the heart will kill you for other reasons even if the heart stands up under manhandling.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 The patient shrugged. \ldblquote If I ever break a rib, I\rquote ll have that replaced by titanium, also. Replacing bones is easy. Anyone can have that done anytime. I\rquote ll be as metallic as I want to be, doctor.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote That is your right, if you so choose. However, it is only fair to tell you that although no metallic cyber-heart has ever broken down mechanically, a number have broken down electronically.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote What does that mean?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote It means that every cyber-heart contains a pacemaker as part of its structure. In the case of the metallic variety, this is an electronic device that keeps the cyber in rhythm. It means an entire battery of miniaturized equipment must be included to alter the heart\rquote s rhythm to suit an individual\rquote s emotional and physical state. Occasionally something goes wrong there and people have died before that wrong could be corrected.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote I never heard of such a thing.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote I assure you it happens.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Are you telling me it happens often?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Not at all. It happens very rarely.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Well, then, I\rquote ll take my chance. What about the plastic heart? Doesn\rquote t that contain a pacemaker?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Of course it does, Senator. But the chemical structure of a fibrous cyber-heart is quite close to that of human tissue. It can respond to the ionic and hormonal controls of the body itself. The total complex that need be in\-serted is far simpler than in the case of the metal cyber.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote But doesn\rquote t the plastic heart ever pop out of hormonal control?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote None has ever yet done so.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Because you haven\rquote t been working with them long enough. Isn\rquote t that so?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 The surgeon hesitated. \ldblquote It is true that the fibrous cybers have not been used nearly as long as the metallic.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote There you are. What is it anyway, doctor? Are you afraid I\rquote m making myself into a robot . . . into a Metallo, as they call them since citizenship went through?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote There is nothing wrong with a Metallo as a Metallo. As you say, they are citizens. But you\rquote re \i not \i0 a Metallo. You\rquote re a human being. Why not stay a human being?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Because I want the best and that\rquote s a metallic heart. You see to that.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 The surgeon nodded. \ldblquote Very well. You will be asked to sign the necessary permissions and you will then be fitted with a metal heart.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote And you\rquote ll be the surgeon in charge? They tell me you\rquote re the best.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote I will do what I can to make the changeover an easy one.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 The door opened and the chair moved the patient out to the waiting nurse.\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 The med-eng came in, looking over his shoulder at the receding patient until the doors had closed again.\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 He turned to the surgeon. \ldblquote Well, I can\rquote t tell what happened just by looking at you. What was his decision?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 The surgeon bent over his desk, punching out the final items for his records. \ldblquote What you predicted. He insists on the metallic cyber-heart.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote After all, they are better.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Not significantly. They\rquote ve been around longer; no more than that. It\rquote s this mania that\rquote s been plaguing humanity ever since Metallos have become citizens. Men have this odd desire to make Metallos out of themselves. They yearn for the physical strength and endurance one associates with them.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote It isn\rquote t one-sided, doc. You don\rquote t work with Metallos but I do; so I know. The last two who came in for repairs have asked for fibrous elements.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Did they get them?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote In one case, it was just a matter of supplying tendons; it didn\rquote t make much difference there, metal or fibre. The other wanted a blood system or its equivalent. I told him I couldn\rquote t; not without a complete rebuilding of the structure of his body in fibrous material. ... I suppose it will come to that some day. Metallos that aren\rquote t really Metallos at all, but a kind of flesh and blood.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote You don\rquote t mind that thought?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Why not? And metallized human beings, too. We have two varieties of intelligence on Earth now and why bother with two. Let them approach each other and eventually we won\rquote t be able to tell the difference. Why should we want to? We\rquote d have the best of both worlds; the advantages of man combined with those of robot.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote You\rquote d get a hybrid,\rdblquote  said the surgeon, with something that approached fierceness. \ldblquote You\rquote d get something that is not both, but neither. Isn\rquote t it logical to suppose an individual would be too proud of his structure and identity to want to dilute it with something alien? Would he \i want \i0 mongrelization?\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote That\rquote s segregationist talk.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2\ldblquote Then let it be that.\rdblquote  The surgeon said with calm emphasis, \ldblquote I believe in being what one is. I wouldn\rquote t change a bit of my own structure for any reason. If some of it absolutely required replacement, I would have that replacement as close to the original in nature as could possibly be managed. I am \i myself; \i0 well pleased to be myself; and would not be anything else.\rdblquote\cf0\par
\tab\cf2 He had finished now and had to prepare for the operation. He placed his strong hands into the heating oven and let them reach the dull red-hot glow that would sterilize them completely. For all his impassioned words, his voice had never risen, and on his burnished metal face there was (as always) no sign of expression.\cf0\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Robbie\par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\ldblquote\scaps Ninety-eight - ninety-nine - one hundred\scaps0 .\rdblquote  Gloria withdrew her chubby little forearm from before her eyes and stood for a moment, wrinkling her nose and blinking in the sunlight. Then, trying to watch in all directions at once, she withdrew a few cautious steps from the tree against which she had been leaning.\par
\tab She craned her neck to investigate the possibilities of a clump of bushes to the right and then withdrew farther to obtain a better angle for viewing its dark recesses. The quiet was profound except for the incessant buzzing of insects and the occasional chirrup of some hardy bird, braving the midday sun.\par
\tab Gloria pouted, \ldblquote I bet he went inside the house, and I\rquote ve told him a million times that that\rquote s not fair.\rdblquote\par
\tab With tiny lips pressed together tightly and a severe frown crinkling her forehead, she moved determinedly toward the two-story building up past the driveway.\par
\tab Too late she heard the rustling sound behind her, followed by the distinctive and rhythmic clump-clump of Robbie\rquote s metal feet. She whirled about to see her triumphing companion emerge from hiding and make for the home-tree at full speed.\par
\tab Gloria shrieked in dismay. \ldblquote Wait, Robbie! That wasn\rquote t fair, Robbie! You promised you wouldn\rquote t run until I found you.\rdblquote  Her little feet could make no headway at all against Robbie\rquote s giant strides. Then, within ten feet of the goal, Robbie\rquote s pace slowed suddenly to the merest of crawls, and Gloria, with one final burst of wild speed, dashed pantingly past him to touch the welcome bark of home-tree first.\par
\tab Gleefully, she turned on the faithful Robbie, and with the basest of ingratitude, rewarded him for his sacrifice by taunting him cruelly for a lack of running ability.\par
\tab\ldblquote Robbie can\rquote t run,\rdblquote  she shouted at the top of her eight-year-old voice. \ldblquote I can beat him any day. I can beat him any day.\rdblquote  She chanted the words in a shrill rhythm.\par
\tab Robbie didn\rquote t answer, of course -- not in words. He pantomimed running instead, inching away until Gloria found herself running after him as he dodged her narrowly, forcing her to veer in helpless circles, little arms outstretched and fanning at the air.\par
\tab\ldblquote Robbie,\rdblquote  she squealed, \ldblquote stand still!\rdblquote  -- And the laughter was forced out of her in breathless jerks.\par
\tab Until he turned suddenly and caught her up, whirling her round, so that for her the world fell away for a moment with a blue emptiness beneath, and green trees stretching hungrily downward toward the void. Then she was down in the grass again, leaning against Robbie\rquote s leg and still holding a hard, metal finger.\par
\tab After a while, her breath returned. She pushed uselessly at her disheveled hair in vague imitation of one of her mother\rquote s gestures and twisted to see if her dress were torn.\par
\tab She slapped her hand against Robbie\rquote s torso, \ldblquote Bad boy! I\rquote ll spank you!\rdblquote\par
\tab And Robbie cowered, holding his hands over his face so that she had to add, \ldblquote No, I won\rquote t, Robbie. I won\rquote t spank you. But anyway, it\rquote s my turn to hide now because you\rquote ve got longer legs and you promised not to run till I found you.\rdblquote\par
\tab Robbie nodded his head -- a small parallelepiped with rounded edges and corners attached to a similar but much larger parallelepiped that served as torso by means of a short, flexible stalk -- and obediently faced the tree. A thin, metal film descended over his glowing eyes and from within his body came a steady, resonant ticking.\par
\tab\ldblquote Don\rquote t peek now -- and don\rquote t skip any numbers,\rdblquote  warned Gloria, and scurried for cover.\par
\tab With unvarying regularity, seconds were ticked off, and at the hundredth, up went the eyelids, and the glowing red of Robbie\rquote s eyes swept the prospect. They rested for a moment on a bit of colorful gingham that protruded from behind a boulder. He advanced a few steps and convinced himself that it was Gloria who squatted behind it.\par
\tab Slowly, remaining always between Gloria and home-tree, he advanced on the hiding place, and when Gloria was plainly in sight and could no longer even theorize to herself that she was not seen, he extended one arm toward her, slapping the other against his leg so that it rang again. Gloria emerged sulkily.\par
\tab\ldblquote You peeked!\rdblquote  she exclaimed, with gross unfairness. \ldblquote Besides I\rquote m tired of playing hide-and-seek. I want a ride.\rdblquote\par
\tab But Robbie was hurt at the unjust accusation, so he seated himself carefully and shook his head ponderously from side to side.\par
\tab Gloria changed her tone to one of gentle coaxing immediately, \ldblquote Come on, Robbie. I didn\rquote t mean it about the peeking. Give me a ride.\rdblquote\par
\tab Robbie was not to be won over so easily, though. He gazed stubbornly at the sky, and shook his head even more emphatically.\par
\tab\ldblquote Please, Robbie, please give me a ride.\rdblquote  She encircled his neck with rosy arms and hugged tightly. Then, changing moods in a moment, she moved away. \ldblquote If you don\rquote t, I\rquote m going to cry,\rdblquote  and her face twisted appallingly in preparation.\par
\tab Hard-hearted Robbie paid scant attention to this dreadful possibility, and shook his head a third time. Gloria found it necessary to play her trump card.\par
\tab\ldblquote If you don\rquote t,\rdblquote  she exclaimed warmly, \ldblquote I won\rquote t tell you any more stories, that\rquote s all. Not one-\rdblquote\par
\tab Robbie gave in immediately and unconditionally before this ultimatum, nodding his head vigorously until the metal of his neck hummed. Carefully, he raised the little girl and placed her on his broad, flat shoulders.\par
\tab Gloria\rquote s threatened tears vanished immediately and she crowed with delight. Robbie\rquote s metal skin, kept at a constant temperature of seventy by the high resistance coils within, felt nice and comfortable, while the beautifully loud sound her heels made as they bumped rhythmically against his chest was enchanting.\par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote re an air-coaster, Robbie, you\rquote re a big, silver aircoaster. Hold out your arms straight. -- You got to, Robbie, if you\rquote re going to be an aircoaster.\rdblquote\par
\tab The logic was irrefutable. Robbie\rquote s arms were wings catching the air currents and he was a silver \lquote coaster.\par
\tab Gloria twisted the robot\rquote s head and leaned to the right. He banked sharply. Gloria equipped the \lquote coaster with a motor that went \ldblquote Br-r-r\rdblquote  and then with weapons that went \ldblquote Powie\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Sh-sh-shshsh.\rdblquote  Pirates were giving chase and the ship\rquote s blasters were coming into play. The pirates dropped in a steady rain.\par
\tab\ldblquote Got another one. Two more,\rdblquote  she cried.\par
\tab Then \ldblquote Faster, men,\rdblquote  Gloria said pompously, \ldblquote we\rquote re running out of ammunition.\rdblquote  She aimed over her shoulder with undaunted courage and Robbie was a blunt-nosed spaceship zooming through the void at maximum acceleration.\par
\tab Clear across the field he sped, to the patch of tall grass on the other side, where he stopped with a suddenness that evoked a shriek from his flushed rider, and then tumbled her onto the soft, green carpet.\par
\tab Gloria gasped and panted, and gave voice to intermittent whispered exclamations of \ldblquote That was nice!\rdblquote\par
\tab Robbie waited until she had caught her breath and then pulled gently at a lock of hair.\par
\tab\ldblquote You want something?\rdblquote  said Gloria, eyes wide in an apparently artless complexity that fooled her huge \ldblquote nursemaid\rdblquote  not at all. He pulled the curl harder.\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, I know. You want a story.\rdblquote\par
\tab Robbie nodded rapidly.\par
\tab\ldblquote Which one?\rdblquote\par
\tab Robbie made a semi-circle in the air with one finger.\par
\tab The little girl protested, \ldblquote Again? I\rquote ve told you Cinderella a million times. Aren\rquote t you tired of it? -It\rquote s for babies.\rdblquote\par
\tab Another semi-circle.\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, well,\rdblquote  Gloria composed herself, ran over the details of the tale in her mind (together with her own elaborations, of which she had several) and began:\par
\tab\ldblquote Are you ready? Well -- once upon a time there was a beautiful little girl whose name was Ella. And she had a terribly cruel step-mother and two very ugly and very cruel step-sisters and-\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Gloria was reaching the very climax of the tale -- midnight was striking and everything was changing back to the shabby originals lickety-split, while Robbie listened tensely with burning eyes -- when the interruption came.\par
\tab\ldblquote Gloria!\rdblquote\par
\tab It was the high-pitched sound of a woman who has been calling not once, but several times; and had the nervous tone of one in whom anxiety was beginning to overcome impatience.\par
\tab\ldblquote Mamma\rquote s calling me,\rdblquote  said Gloria, not quite happily. \ldblquote You\rquote d better carry me back to the house, Robbie.\rdblquote\par
\tab Robbie obeyed with alacrity for somehow there was that in him which judged it best to obey Mrs. Weston, without as much as a scrap of hesitation. Gloria\rquote s father was rarely home in the daytime except on Sunday -- today, for instance -- and when he was, he proved a genial and understanding person. Gloria\rquote s mother, however, was a source of uneasiness to Robbie and there was always the impulse to sneak away from her sight.\par
\tab Mrs. Weston caught sight of them the minute they rose above the masking tufts of long grass and retired inside the house to wait.\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ve shouted myself hoarse, Gloria,\rdblquote  she said, severely. \ldblquote Where were you?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I was with Robbie,\rdblquote  quavered Gloria. \ldblquote I was telling him Cinderella, and I forgot it was dinner-time.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, it\rquote s a pity Robbie forgot, too.\rdblquote  Then, as if that reminded her of the robot\rquote s presence, she whirled upon him. \ldblquote You may go, Robbie. She doesn\rquote t need you now.\rdblquote  Then, brutally, \ldblquote And don\rquote t come back till I call you.\rdblquote\par
\tab Robbie turned to go, but hesitated as Gloria cried out in his defense, \ldblquote Wait, Mamma, you got to let him stay. I didn\rquote t finish Cinderella for him. I said I would tell him Cinderella and I\rquote m not finished.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Gloria!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Honest and truly, Mamma, he\rquote ll stay so quiet, you won\rquote t even know he\rquote s here. He can sit on the chair in the corner, and he won\rquote t say a word, I mean he won\rquote t do anything. Will you, Robbie?\rdblquote\par
\tab Robbie, appealed to, nodded his massive head up and down once.\par
\tab\ldblquote Gloria, if you don\rquote t stop this at once, you shan\rquote t see Robbie for a whole week.\rdblquote\par
\tab The girl\rquote s eyes fell, \ldblquote All right! But Cinderella is his favorite story and I didn\rquote t finish it. --And he likes it so much.\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot left with a disconsolate step and Gloria choked back a sob.\par
\par
\tab George Weston was comfortable. It was a habit of his to be comfortable on Sunday afternoons. A good, hearty dinner below the hatches; a nice, soft, dilapidated couch on which to sprawl; a copy of the Times; slippered feet and shirtless chest; how could anyone help but be comfortable?\par
\tab He wasn\rquote t pleased, therefore, when his wife walked in. After ten years of married life, be still was so unutterably foolish as to love her, and there was no question that he was always glad to see her -- still Sunday afternoons just after dinner were sacred to him and his idea of solid comfort was to be left in utter solitude for two or three hours. Consequently, he fixed his eye firmly upon the latest reports of the Lefebre-Yoshida expedition to Mars (this one was to take off from Lunar Base and might actually succeed) and pretended she wasn\rquote t there.\par
\tab Mrs. Weston waited patiently for two minutes, then impatiently for two more, and finally broke the silence.\par
\tab\ldblquote George!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Hmpph?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote George, I say! Will you put down that paper and look at me?\rdblquote\par
\tab The paper rustled to the floor and Weston turned a weary face toward his wife, \ldblquote What is it, dear?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You know what it is, George. It\rquote s Gloria and that terrible machine.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What terrible machine?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Now don\rquote t pretend you don\rquote t know what I\rquote m talking about. It\rquote s that robot Gloria calls Robbie. He doesn\rquote t leave her for a moment.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, why should he? He\rquote s not supposed to. And he certainly isn\rquote t a terrible machine. He\rquote s the best darn robot money can buy and I\rquote m damned sure he set me back half a year\rquote s income. He\rquote s worth it, though -- darn sight cleverer than half my office staff.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab He made a move to pick up the paper again, but his wife was quicker and snatched it away.\par
\tab\ldblquote You listen to me, George. I won\rquote t have my daughter entrusted to a machine -- and I don\rquote t care how clever it is. It has no soul, and no one knows what it may be thinking. A child just isn\rquote t made to be guarded by a thing of metal.\rdblquote\par
\tab Weston frowned, \ldblquote When did you decide this? He\rquote s been with Gloria two years now and I haven\rquote t seen you worry till now.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It was different at first. It was a novelty; it took a load off me, and -- and it was a fashionable thing to do. But now I don\rquote t know. The neighbors-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, what have the neighbors to do with it? Now, look. A robot is infinitely more to be trusted than a human nursemaid. Robbie was constructed for only one purpose really -- to be the companion of a little child. His entire \lquote mentality\rquote  has been created for the purpose. He just can\rquote t help being faithful and loving and kind. He\rquote s a machine-made so. That\rquote s more than you can say for humans.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But something might go wrong. Some- some-\rdblquote  Mrs. Weston was a bit hazy about the insides of a robot, \ldblquote some little jigger will come loose and the awful thing will go berserk and- and-\rdblquote  She couldn\rquote t bring herself to complete the quite obvious thought.\par
\tab\ldblquote Nonsense,\rdblquote  Weston denied, with an involuntary nervous shiver. \ldblquote That\rquote s completely ridiculous. We had a long discussion at the time we bought Robbie about the First Law of Robotics. You know that it is impossible for a robot to harm a human being; that long before enough can go wrong to alter that First Law, a robot would be completely inoperable. It\rquote s a mathematical impossibility. Besides I have an engineer from U. S. Robots here twice a year to give the poor gadget a complete overhaul. Why, there\rquote s no more chance of any thing at all going wrong with Robbie than there is of you or I suddenly going loony -- considerably less, in fact. Besides, how are you going to take him away from Gloria?\rdblquote\par
\tab He made another futile stab at the paper and his wife tossed it angrily into the next room.\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s just it, George! She won\rquote t play with anyone else. There are dozens of little boys and girls that she should make friends with, but she won\rquote t. She won\rquote t go near them unless I make her. That\rquote s no way for a little girl to grow up. You want her to be normal, don\rquote t you? You want her to be able to take her part in society.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote re jumping at shadows, Grace. Pretend Robbie\rquote s a dog. I\rquote ve seen hundreds of children who would rather have their dog than their father.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote A dog is different, George. We must get rid of that horrible thing. You can sell it back to the company. I\rquote ve asked, and you can.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote ve asked? Now look here, Grace, let\rquote s not go off the deep end. We\rquote re keeping the robot until Gloria is older and I don\rquote t want the subject brought up again.\rdblquote  And with that he walked out of the room in a huff.\par
\par
\tab Mrs. Weston met her husband at the door two evenings later. \ldblquote You\rquote ll have to listen to this, George. There\rquote s bad feeling in the village.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote About what?\rdblquote  asked Weston? He stepped into the washroom and drowned out any possible answer by the splash of water.\par
\tab Mrs. Weston waited. She said, \ldblquote About Robbie.\rdblquote\par
\tab Weston stepped out, towel in hand, face red and angry, \ldblquote What are you talking about?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, it\rquote s been building up and building up. I\rquote ve tried to close my eyes to it, but I\rquote m not going to any more. Most of the villagers consider Robbie dangerous. Children aren\rquote t allowed to go near our place in the evenings.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We trust \i our\i0  child with the thing.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, people aren\rquote t reasonable about these things.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then to hell with them.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Saying that doesn\rquote t solve the problem. I\rquote ve got to do my shopping down there. I\rquote ve got to meet them every day. And it\rquote s even worse in the city these days when it comes to robots. New York has just passed an ordinance keeping all robots off the streets between sunset and sunrise.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote All right, but they can\rquote t stop us from keeping a robot in our home. Grace, this is one of your campaigns. I recognize it. But it\rquote s no use. The answer is still, no! We\rquote re keeping Robbie!\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab And yet he loved his wife -- and what was worse, his wife knew it. George Weston, after all, was only a man -- poor thing -- and his wife made full use of every device which a clumsier and more scrupulous sex has learned, with reason and futility, to fear.\par
\tab Ten times in the ensuing week, he cried, \ldblquote Robbie stays, and that\rquote s final!\rdblquote  and each time it was weaker and accompanied by a louder and more agonized groan.\par
\tab Came the day at last, when Weston approached his daughter guiltily and suggested a \ldblquote beautiful\rdblquote  visivox show in the village.\par
\tab Gloria clapped her hands happily, \ldblquote Can Robbie go?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, dear,\rdblquote  he said, and winced at the sound of his voice, \ldblquote they won\rquote t allow robots at the visivox -- but you can tell him all about it when you get home.\rdblquote  He stumbled all over the last few words and looked away.\par
\tab Gloria came back from town bubbling over with enthusiasm, for the visivox had been a gorgeous spectacle indeed.\par
\tab She waited for her father to maneuver the jet-car into the sunken garage, \ldblquote Wait till I tell Robbie, Daddy. He would have liked it like anything. Especially when Francis Fran was backing away so-o-o quietly, and backed right into one of the Leopard-Men and had to run.\rdblquote  She laughed again, \ldblquote Daddy, are there really Leopard-Men on the Moon?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Probably not,\rdblquote  said Weston absently. \ldblquote It\rquote s just funny make-believe.\rdblquote  He couldn\rquote t take much longer with the car. He\rquote d have to face it.\par
\tab Gloria ran across the lawn. \ldblquote Robbie. --Robbie!\rdblquote\par
\tab Then she stopped suddenly at the sight of a beautiful collie which regarded her out of serious brown eyes as it wagged its tail on the porch.\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, what a nice dog!\rdblquote  Gloria climbed the steps, approached cautiously and patted it. \ldblquote Is it for me, Daddy?\rdblquote\par
\tab Her mother had joined them. \ldblquote Yes, it is, Gloria. Isn\rquote t it nice -- soft and furry? It\rquote s very gentle. It likes little girls.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Can he play games?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Surely. He can do any number of tricks. Would you like to see some?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Right away. I want Robbie to see him, too. Robbie!\rdblquote  She stopped, uncertainly, and frowned, \ldblquote I\rquote ll bet he\rquote s just staying in his room because he\rquote s mad at me for not taking him to the visivox. You\rquote ll have to explain to him, Daddy. He might not believe me, but he knows if you say it, it\rquote s so.\rdblquote\par
\tab Weston\rquote s lip grew tighter. He looked toward his wife but could not catch her eye.\par
\tab Gloria turned precipitously and ran down the basement steps, shouting as she went, \ldblquote Robbie-- Come and see what Daddy and Mamma brought me. They brought me a dog, Robbie.\rdblquote\par
\tab In a minute she had returned, a frightened little girl. \ldblquote Mamma, Robbie isn\rquote t in his room. Where is he?\rdblquote  There was no answer and George Weston coughed and was suddenly extremely interested in an aimlessly drifting cloud. Gloria\rquote s voice quavered on the verge of tears, \ldblquote Where\rquote s Robbie, Mamma?\rdblquote\par
\tab Mrs. Weston sat down and drew her daughter gently to her, \ldblquote Don\rquote t feel bad, Gloria. Robbie has gone away, I think.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Gone away? Where? Where\rquote s he gone away, Mamma?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No one knows, darling. He just walked away. We\rquote ve looked and we\rquote ve looked and we\rquote ve looked for him, but we can\rquote t find him.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You mean he\rquote ll never come back again?\rdblquote  Her eyes were round with horror.\par
\tab\ldblquote We may find him soon. We\rquote ll keep looking for him. And meanwhile you can play with your nice new doggie. Look at him! His name is Lightning and he can-\rdblquote\par
\tab But Gloria\rquote s eyelids had overflown, \ldblquote I don\rquote t want the nasty dog -- I want Robbie. I want you to find me Robbie.\rdblquote  Her feelings became too deep for words, and she spluttered into a shrill wail.\par
\tab Mrs. Weston glanced at her husband for help, but he merely shuffled his feet morosely and did not withdraw his ardent stare from the heavens, so she bent to the task of consolation, \ldblquote Why do you cry, Gloria? Robbie was only a machine, just a nasty old machine. He wasn\rquote t alive at all.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote He was not no machine!\rdblquote  screamed Gloria, fiercely and ungrammatically. \ldblquote He was a person just like you and me and he was my friend. I want him back. Oh, Mamma, I want him back.\rdblquote\par
\tab Her mother groaned in defeat and left Gloria to her sorrow.\par
\tab\ldblquote Let her have her cry out,\rdblquote  she told her husband. \ldblquote Childish griefs are never lasting. In a few days, she\rquote ll forget that awful robot ever existed.\rdblquote\par
\tab But time proved Mrs. Weston a bit too optimistic. To be sure, Gloria ceased crying, but she ceased smiling, too, and the passing days found her ever more silent and shadowy. Gradually, her attitude of passive unhappiness wore Mrs. Weston down and all that kept her from yielding was the impossibility of admitting defeat to her husband.\par
\tab Then, one evening, she flounced into the living room, sat down, folded her arms and looked boiling mad.\par
\tab Her husband stretched his neck in order to see her over his newspaper, \ldblquote What now, Grace?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s that child, George. I\rquote ve had to send back the dog today. Gloria positively couldn\rquote t stand the sight of him, she said. She\rquote s driving me into a nervous breakdown.\rdblquote\par
\tab Weston laid down the paper and a hopeful gleam entered his eye, \ldblquote Maybe-- Maybe we ought to get Robbie back. It might be done, you know. I can get in touch with-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No!\rdblquote  she replied, grimly. \ldblquote I won\rquote t hear of it. We\rquote re not giving up that easily. My child shall not be brought up by a robot if it takes years to break her of it.\rdblquote\par
\tab Weston picked up his paper again with a disappointed air. \ldblquote A year of this will have me prematurely gray.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote re a big help, George,\rdblquote  was the frigid answer. \ldblquote What Gloria needs is a change of environment? Of course she can\rquote t forget Robbie here. How can she when every tree and rock reminds her of him? It is really the silliest situation I have ever heard of. Imagine a child pining away for the loss of a robot.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, stick to the point. What\rquote s the change in environment you\rquote re planning?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We\rquote re going to take her to New York.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The city! In August! Say, do you know what New York is like in August? It\rquote s unbearable.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Millions do bear it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote They don\rquote t have a place like this to go to. If they didn\rquote t have to stay in New York, they wouldn\rquote t.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, we have to. I say we\rquote re leaving now -- or as soon as we can make the arrangements. In the city, Gloria will find sufficient interests and sufficient friends to perk her up and make her forget that machine.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, Lord,\rdblquote  groaned the lesser half, \ldblquote those frying pavements!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We have to,\rdblquote  was the unshaken response. \ldblquote Gloria has lost five pounds in the last month and my little girl\rquote s health is more important to me than your comfort.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s a pity you didn\rquote t think of your little girl\rquote s health before you deprived her of her pet robot,\rdblquote  he muttered -- but to himself.\par
\par
\tab Gloria displayed immediate signs of improvement when told of the impending trip to the city. She spoke little of it, but when she did, it was always with lively anticipation. Again, she began to smile and to eat with something of her former appetite.\par
\tab Mrs. Weston hugged herself for joy and lost no opportunity to triumph over her still skeptical husband.\par
\tab\ldblquote You see, George, she helps with the packing like a little angel, and chatters away as if she hadn\rquote t a care in the world. It\rquote s just as I told you -- all we need do is substitute other interests.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Hmpph,\rdblquote  was the skeptical response, \ldblquote I hope so.\rdblquote\par
\tab Preliminaries were gone through quickly. Arrangements were made for the preparation of their city home and a couple were engaged as housekeepers for the country home. When the day of the trip finally did come, Gloria was all but her old self again, and no mention of Robbie passed her lips at all.\par
\tab In high good-humor the family took a taxi-gyro to the airport (Weston would have preferred using his own private \lquote gyro, but it was only a two-seater with no room for baggage) and entered the waiting liner.\par
\tab\ldblquote Come, Gloria,\rdblquote  called Mrs. Weston. \ldblquote I\rquote ve saved you a seat near the window so you can watch the scenery.\rdblquote\par
\tab Gloria trotted down the aisle cheerily, flattened her nose into a white oval against the thick clear glass, and watched with an intentness that increased as the sudden coughing of the motor drifted backward into the interior. She was too young to be frightened when the ground dropped away as if let through a trap door and she herself suddenly became twice her usual weight, but not too young to be mightily interested. It wasn\rquote t until the ground had changed into a tiny patchwork quilt that she withdrew her nose, and faced her mother again.\par
\tab\ldblquote Will we soon be in the city, Mamma?\rdblquote  she asked, rubbing her chilled nose, and watching with interest as the patch of moisture which her breath had formed on the pane shrank slowly and vanished.\par
\tab\ldblquote In about half an hour, dear.\rdblquote  Then, with just the faintest trace of anxiety, \ldblquote Aren\rquote t you glad we\rquote re going? Don\rquote t you think you\rquote ll be very happy in the city with all the buildings and people and things to see? We\rquote ll go to the visivox every day and see shows and go to the circus and the beach and-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, Mamma,\rdblquote  was Gloria\rquote s unenthusiastic rejoinder. The liner passed over a bank of clouds at the moment, and Gloria was instantly absorbed in the usual spectacle of clouds underneath one. Then they were over clear sky again, and she turned to her mother with a sudden mysterious air of secret knowledge.\par
\tab\ldblquote I know why we\rquote re going to the city, Mamma.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Do you?\rdblquote  Mrs. Weston was puzzled. \ldblquote Why, dear?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You didn\rquote t tell me because you wanted it to be a surprise, but I know.\rdblquote  For a moment, she was lost in admiration at her own acute penetration, and then she laughed gaily. \ldblquote We\rquote re going to New York so we can find Robbie, aren\rquote t we? --With detectives.\rdblquote\par
\tab The statement caught George Weston in the middle of a drink of water, with disastrous results. There was a sort of strangled gasp, a geyser of water, and then a bout of choking coughs. When all was over, he stood there, a red-faced, water-drenched and very, very annoyed person.\par
\tab Mrs. Weston maintained her composure, but when Gloria repeated her question in a more anxious tone of voice, she found her temper rather bent.\par
\tab\ldblquote Maybe,\rdblquote  she retorted, tartly. \ldblquote Now sit and be still, for Heaven\rquote s sake.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab New York City, 1998 A.D., was a paradise for the sightseer more than ever in its history. Gloria\rquote s parents realized this and made the most of it.\par
\tab On direct orders from his wife, George Weston arranged to have his business take care of itself for a month or so, in order to be free to spend the time in what he termed, \ldblquote dissipating Gloria to the verge of ruin.\rdblquote  Like everything else Weston did, this was gone about in an efficient, thorough, and business-like way. Before the month had passed, nothing that could be done had not been done.\par
\tab She was taken to the top of the half-mile tall Roosevelt Building, to gaze down in awe upon the jagged panorama of rooftops that blended far off in the fields of Long Island and the flatlands of New Jersey. They visited the zoos where Gloria stared in delicious fright at the \ldblquote real live lion\rdblquote  (rather disappointed that the keepers fed him raw steaks, instead of human beings, as she had expected), and asked insistently and peremptorily to see \ldblquote the whale.\rdblquote\par
\tab The various museums came in for their share of attention, together with the parks and the beaches and the aquarium.\par
\tab She was taken halfway up the Hudson in an excursion steamer fitted out in the archaism of the mad Twenties. She traveled into the stratosphere on an exhibition trip, where the sky turned deep purple and the stars came out and the misty earth below looked like a huge concave bowl. Down under the waters of the Long Island Sound she was taken in a glass-walled sub-sea vessel, where in a green and wavering world, quaint and curious sea-things ogled her and wiggled suddenly away.\par
\tab On a more prosaic level, Mrs. Weston took her to the department stores where she could revel in another type of fairyland.\par
\tab In fact, when the month had nearly sped, the Westons were convinced that everything conceivable had been done to take Gloria\rquote s mind once and for all off the departed Robbie -- but they were not quite sure they had succeeded.\par
\tab The fact remained that wherever Gloria went, she displayed the most absorbed and concentrated interest in such robots as happened to be present. No matter how exciting the spectacle before her, nor how novel to her girlish eyes, she turned away instantly if the corner of her eye caught a glimpse of metallic movement.\par
\tab Mrs. Weston went out of her way to keep Gloria away from all robots.\par
\tab And the matter was finally climaxed in the episode at the Museum of Science and Industry. The Museum had announced a special \ldblquote children\rquote s program\rdblquote  in which exhibits of scientific witchery scaled down to the child mind were to be shown. The Westons, of course, placed it upon their list of \ldblquote absolutely.\rdblquote\par
\tab It was while the Westons were standing totally absorbed in the exploits of a powerful electro-magnet that Mrs. Weston suddenly became aware of the fact that Gloria was no longer with her. Initial panic gave way to calm decision and, enlisting the aid of three attendants, a careful search was begun.\par
\tab Gloria, of course, was not one to wander aimlessly, however. For her age, she was an unusually determined and purposeful girl, quite full of the maternal genes in that respect. She had seen a huge sign on the third floor, which had said, \ldblquote This Way to the Talking Robot\rdblquote  Having spelled it out to herself and having noticed that her parents did not seem to wish to move in the proper direction, she did the obvious thing. Waiting for an opportune moment of parental distraction, she calmly disengaged herself and followed the sign.\par
\par
\tab The Talking Robot was a tour de force, a thoroughly impractical device, possessing publicity value only. Once an hour, an escorted group stood before it and asked questions of the robot engineer in charge in careful whispers. Those the engineer decided were suitable for the robot\rquote s circuits were transmitted to the Talking Robot.\par
\tab It was rather dull. It may be nice to know that the square of fourteen is one hundred ninety-six, that the temperature at the moment is 72 degrees Fahrenheit, and the air-pressure 30.02 inches of mercury, that the atomic weight of sodium is 23, but one doesn\rquote t really need a robot for that. One especially does not need an unwieldy, totally immobile mass of wires and coils spreading over twenty-five square yards.\par
\tab Few people bothered to return for a second helping, but one girl in her middle teens sat quietly on a bench waiting for a third. She was the only one in the room when Gloria entered.\par
\tab Gloria did not look at her. To her at the moment, another human being was but an inconsiderable item. She saved her attention for this large thing with the wheels. For a moment, she hesitated in dismay. It didn\rquote t look like any robot she had ever seen.\par
\tab Cautiously and doubtfully she raised her treble voice; \ldblquote Please, Mr. Robot, sir, are you the Talking Robot, sir?\rdblquote  She wasn\rquote t sure, but it seemed to her that a robot that actually talked was worth a great deal of politeness.\par
\tab (The girl in her mid-teens allowed a look of intense concentration to cross her thin, plain face. She whipped out a small notebook and began writing in rapid pothooks.)\par
\tab There was an oily whir of gears and a mechanically timbered voice boomed out in words that lacked accent and intonation, \ldblquote I- am- the- robot- that- talks.\rdblquote\par
\tab Gloria stared at it ruefully. It did talk, but the sound came from inside somewheres. There was no face to talk to. She said, \ldblquote Can you help me, Mr. Robot, sir?\rdblquote\par
\tab The Talking Robot was designed to answer questions, and only such questions as it could answer had ever been put to it. It was quite confident of its ability, therefore, \ldblquote I- can- help- you.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Thank you, Mr. Robot, sir. Have you seen Robbie?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Who -is Robbie?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote He\rquote s a robot, Mr. Robot, sir.\rdblquote  She stretched to tiptoes. \ldblquote He\rquote s about so high, Mr. Robot, sir, only higher, and he\rquote s very nice. He\rquote s got a head, you know. I mean you haven\rquote t, but he has, Mr. Robot, sir.\rdblquote\par
\tab The Talking Robot had been left behind, \ldblquote A- robot?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, Mr. Robot, sir. A robot just like you, except he can\rquote t talk, of course, and -- looks like a real person.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote A- robot- like- me?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, Mr. Robot, sir.\rdblquote\par
\tab To which the Talking Robot\rquote s only response was an erratic splutter and an occasional incoherent sound. The radical generalization offered it, i.e., its existence, not as a particular object, but as a member of a general group, was too much for it. Loyally, it tried to encompass the concept and half a dozen coils burnt out. Little warning signals were buzzing.\par
\tab (The girl in her mid-teens left at that point. She had enough for her Physics-1 paper on \ldblquote Practical Aspects of Robotics.\rdblquote  This paper was Susan Calvin\rquote s first of many on the subject.)\par
\tab Gloria stood waiting, with carefully concealed impatience, for the machine\rquote s answer when she heard the cry behind her of \ldblquote There she is,\rdblquote  and recognized that cry as her mother\rquote s.\par
\tab\ldblquote What are you doing here, you bad girl?\rdblquote  cried Mrs. Weston, anxiety dissolving at once into anger. \ldblquote Do you know you frightened your mamma and daddy almost to death? Why did you run away?\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot engineer had also dashed in, tearing his hair, and demanding who of the gathering crowd had tampered with the machine. \ldblquote Can\rquote t anybody read signs?\rdblquote  he yelled. \ldblquote You\rquote re not allowed in here without an attendant.\rdblquote\par
\tab Gloria raised her grieved voice over the din, \ldblquote I only came to see the Talking Robot, Mamma. I thought he might know where Robbie was because they\rquote re both robots.\rdblquote  And then, as the thought of Robbie was suddenly brought forcefully home to her, she burst into a sudden storm of tears, \ldblquote And I got to find Robbie, Mamma. I got to.\rdblquote\par
\tab Mrs. Weston strangled a cry, and said, \ldblquote Oh, good Heavens. Come home, George. This is more than I can stand.\rdblquote\par
\tab That evening, George Weston left for several hours, and the next morning, he approached his wife with something that looked suspiciously like smug complacence.\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ve got an idea, Grace.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote About what?\rdblquote  was the gloomy, uninterested query?\par
\tab\ldblquote About Gloria.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote re not going to suggest buying back that robot?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, of course not.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then go ahead. I might as well listen to you. Nothing I\rquote ve done seems to have done any good.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote All right. Here\rquote s what I\rquote ve been thinking. The whole trouble with Gloria is that she thinks of Robbie as a person and not as a machine. Naturally, she can\rquote t forget him. Now if we managed to convince her that Robbie was nothing more than a mess of steel and copper in the form of sheets and wires with electricity its juice of life, how long would her longings last? It\rquote s the psychological attack, if you see my point.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote How do you plan to do it?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Simple. Where do you suppose I went last night? I persuaded Robertson of U. S. Robots and Mechanical Men, Inc. to arrange for a complete tour of his premises tomorrow. The three of us will go, and by the time we\rquote re through, Gloria will have it drilled into her that a robot is not alive.\rdblquote\par
\tab Mrs. Weston\rquote s eyes widened gradually and something glinted in her eyes that was quite like sudden admiration, \ldblquote Why, George, that\rquote s a good idea.\rdblquote\par
\tab And George Weston\rquote s vest buttons strained. \ldblquote Only kind I have,\rdblquote  he said.\par
\par
\tab Mr. Struthers was a conscientious General Manager and naturally inclined to be a bit talkative. The combination, therefore, resulted in a tour that was fully explained, perhaps even over-abundantly explained, at every step. However, Mrs. Weston was not bored. Indeed, she stopped him several times and begged him to repeat his statements in simpler language so that Gloria might understand. Under the influence of this appreciation of his narrative powers, Mr. Struthers expanded genially and became ever more communicative, if possible.\par
\tab George Weston, himself, showed a gathering impatience.\par
\tab\ldblquote Pardon me, Struthers,\rdblquote  he said, breaking into the middle of a lecture on the photoelectric cell, \ldblquote haven\rquote t you a section of the factory where only robot labor is employed?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Eh? Oh, yes! Yes, indeed!\rdblquote  He smiled at Mrs. Weston. \ldblquote A vicious circle in a way, robots creating more robots. Of course, we are not making a general practice out of it. For one thing, the unions would never let us. But we can turn out a very few robots using robot labor exclusively, merely as a sort of scientific experiment. You see,\rdblquote  he tapped his pince-nez into one palm argumentatively, \ldblquote what the labor unions don\rquote t realize -- and I say this as a man who has always been very sympathetic with the labor movement in general -- is that the advent of the robot, while involving some dislocation to begin with, will inevitably-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, Struthers,\rdblquote  said Weston, \ldblquote but about that section of the factory you speak of  -- may we see it? It would be very interesting, I\rquote m sure.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes! Yes, of course!\rdblquote  Mr. Struthers replaced his pince-nez in one convulsive movement and gave vent to a soft cough of discomfiture. \ldblquote Follow me, please.\rdblquote\par
\tab He was comparatively quiet while leading the three through a long corridor and down a flight of stairs. Then, when they had entered a large well-lit room that buzzed with metallic activity, the sluices opened and the flood of explanation poured forth again.\par
\tab\ldblquote There you are!\rdblquote  he said with pride in his voice. \ldblquote Robots only! Five men act as overseers and they don\rquote t even stay in this room. In five years, that is, since we began this project, not a single accident has occurred. Of course, the robots here assembled are comparatively simple, but...\rdblquote\par
\tab The General Manager\rquote s voice had long died to a rather soothing murmur in Gloria\rquote s ears. The whole trip seemed rather dull and pointless to her, though there were many robots in sight. None were even remotely like Robbie, though, and she surveyed them with open contempt.\par
\tab In this room, there weren\rquote t any people at all, she noticed. Then her eyes fell upon six or seven robots busily engaged at a round table halfway across the room. They widened in incredulous surprise. It was a big room. She couldn\rquote t see for sure, but one of the robots looked like -- looked like -- it was!\par
\tab\ldblquote Robbie!\rdblquote  Her shriek pierced the air, and one of the robots about the table faltered and dropped the tool he was holding. Gloria went almost mad with joy. Squeezing through the railing before either parent could stop her, she dropped lightly to the floor a few feet below, and ran toward her Robbie, arms waving and hair flying.\par
\tab And the three horrified adults, as they stood frozen in their tracks, saw what the excited little girl did not see, -- a huge, lumbering tractor bearing blindly down upon its appointed track.\par
\tab It took split-seconds for Weston to come to his senses, and those split-seconds meant everything, for Gloria could not be overtaken. Although Weston vaulted the railing in a wild attempt, it was obviously hopeless. Mr. Struthers signaled wildly to the overseers to stop the tractor, but the overseers were only human and it took time to act.\par
\tab It was only Robbie that acted immediately and with precision.\par
\tab With metal legs eating up the space between himself and his little mistress he charged down from the opposite direction. Everything then happened at once. With one sweep of an arm, Robbie snatched up Gloria, slackening his speed not one iota, and, consequently, knocking every breath of air out of her. Weston, not quite comprehending all that was happening, felt, rather than saw, Robbie brush past him, and came to a sudden bewildered halt. The tractor intersected Gloria\rquote s path half a second after Robbie had, rolled on ten feet further and came to a grinding, long drawn-out stop.\par
\tab Gloria regained her breath, submitted to a series of passionate hugs on the part of both her parents and turned eagerly toward Robbie. As far as she was concerned, nothing had happened except that she had found her friend.\par
\tab But Mrs. Weston\rquote s expression had changed from one of relief to one of dark suspicion. She turned to her husband, and, despite her disheveled and undignified appearance, managed to look quite formidable, \ldblquote You engineered this, didn\rquote t you?\par
\tab George Weston swabbed at a hot forehead with his handkerchief. His hand was unsteady, and his lips could curve only into a tremulous and exceedingly weak smile.\par
\tab Mrs. Weston pursued the thought, \ldblquote Robbie wasn\rquote t designed for engineering or construction work. He couldn\rquote t be of any use to them. You had him placed there deliberately so that Gloria would find him. You know you did.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, I did,\rdblquote  said Weston. \ldblquote But, Grace, how was I to know the reunion would be so violent? And Robbie has saved her life; you\rquote ll have to admit that. You can\rquote t send him away again.\rdblquote\par
\tab Grace Weston considered. She turned toward Gloria and Robbie and watched them abstractedly for a moment. Gloria had a grip about the robot\rquote s neck that would have asphyxiated any creature but one of metal, and was prattling nonsense in half-hysterical frenzy. Robbie\rquote s chrome-steel arms (capable of bending a bar of steel two inches in diameter into a pretzel) wound about the little girl gently and lovingly, and his eyes glowed a deep, deep red.\par
\tab\ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  said Mrs. Weston, at last, \ldblquote I guess he can stay with us until he rusts.\rdblquote\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\b\i\f2\fs28\page Some Humanoid Robots \par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\tab\i0 In science fiction it is not uncommon to have a robot built with a surface, at least, of synthetic flesh; and an appearance that is, at best, indistinguishable from the human being. Sometimes such humanoid robots are called \ldblquote androids\rdblquote  (from a Greek term meaning \ldblquote manlike\rdblquote ) and some writers are meticulous in making the distinction. I am not. To me a robot is a robot. \par
\tab But then, Karel Capek\rquote s play R.U.R., which introduced the term \ldblquote robot\rdblquote  to the world in 1920, did not involve robots in the strictest sense of the word. The robots manufactured by Rossum\rquote s Universal Robots (the \ldblquote R.U.R.\rdblquote  of the title) were androids. \par
\tab One of the three stories in this section, \ldblquote Let\rquote s Get Together,\rdblquote  is the only story in the book in which robots don\rquote t actually appear, and \ldblquote Mirror Image\rdblquote  is a sequel (of sorts) to my robot novels THE CAVES OF STEEL and THE NAKED SUN. \par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Let\rquote s Get Together\par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\tab A kind of peace had endured for a century and people had forgotten what anything else was like. They would scarcely have known how to react had they discovered that a kind of war had finally come. \par
\tab Certainly, Elias Lynn, Chief of the Bureau of Robotics, wasn\rquote t sure how he ought to react when \i he \i0 finally found out. The Bureau of Robotics was headquartered in Cheyenne, in line with the century-old trend toward decentralization, and Lynn stared dubiously at the young Security officer from Washington who had brought the news. \par
\tab Elias Lynn was a large man, almost charmingly homely, with pale blue eyes that bulged a bit. Men weren\rquote t usually comfortable under the stare of those eyes, but the Security officer remained calm. \par
\tab Lynn decided that his first reaction ought to be incredulity. Hell, it \i was \i0 incredulity! He just didn\rquote t believe it! \par
\tab He eased himself back in his chair and said, \ldblquote How certain is the information?\rdblquote  \par
\tab The Security officer, who had introduced himself as Ralph G. Breckenridge and had presented credentials to match, had the softness of youth about him; full lips, plump cheeks that flushed easily, and guileless eyes. His clothing was out of line with Cheyenne but it suited a universally air-conditioned Washington, where Security, despite everything, was still centered. \par
\tab Breckenridge flushed and said, \ldblquote There\rquote s no doubt about it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You people know all about Them, I suppose,\rdblquote  said Lynn and was unable to keep a trace of sarcasm out of his tone. He was not particularly aware of his use of a slightly stressed pronoun in his reference to the enemy, the equivalent of capitalization in print. It was a cultural habit of this generation and the one preceding. No one said the \ldblquote East\rdblquote  or the \ldblquote Reds\rdblquote  or the \ldblquote Soviets\rdblquote  or the \ldblquote Russians\rdblquote  any more. That would have been too confusing, since some of Them weren\rquote t of the East, weren\rquote t Reds, Soviets, and especially not Russians. It was much simpler to say We and They, and much more precise. \par
\tab Travelers had frequently reported that They did the same in reverse. Over there, They were \ldblquote We\rdblquote  (in the appropriate language) and We were \ldblquote They.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Scarcely anyone gave thought to such things any more. It was all quite comfortable and casual. There was no hatred, even. At the beginning, it had been called a Cold War. Now it was only a game, almost a good-natured game, with unspoken rules and a kind of decency about it. \par
\tab Lynn said abruptly, \ldblquote Why should They want to disturb the situation?\rdblquote  \par
\tab He rose and stood staring at a wall map of the world, split into two regions with faint edgings of color. An irregular portion on the left of the map was edged in a mild green. A smaller, but just as irregular, portion on the right of the map was bordered in a washed-out pink. We and They. \par
\tab The map hadn\rquote t changed much in a century. The loss of Formosa and the gain of East Germany some eighty years before had been the last territorial switch of importance. \par
\tab There had been another change, though, that was significant enough and that was in the colors. Two generations before, Their territory had been a brooding, bloody red, Ours a pure and undefiled white. Now there was a neutrality about the colors. Lynn had seen Their maps and it was the same on Their side. \par
\tab\ldblquote They wouldn\rquote t do it,\rdblquote  he said. \par
\tab\ldblquote They are doing it, \ldblquote  said Breckenridge, \ldblquote and you had better accustom yourself to the fact. Of course, sir, I realize that it isn\rquote t pleasant to think that They may be that far ahead of us in robotics.\rdblquote  \par
\tab His eyes remained as guileless as ever, but the hidden knife-edges of the words plunged deep, and Lynn quivered at the impact. \par
\tab Of course, that would account for why the Chief of Robotics learned of this so late and through a Security officer at that. He had lost caste in the eyes of the Government; if Robotics had really failed in the struggle, Lynn could expect no political mercy. \par
\tab Lynn said wearily, \ldblquote Even if what you say is true, They\rquote re not far ahead of us. We could build humanoid robots.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Have we, sir?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes. As a matter of fact, we have built a few models for experimental purposes.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote They were doing so ten years ago. They\rquote ve made ten years\rquote  progress since.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lynn was disturbed. He wondered if his incredulity concerning the whole business was really the result of wounded pride and fear for his job and reputation. He was embarrassed by the possibility that this might be so, and yet he was forced into defense. \par
\tab He said, \ldblquote Look, young man, the stalemate between Them and Us was never perfect in every detail, you know. They have always been ahead in one facet or another and We in some other facet or another. If They\rquote re ahead of us right now in robotics, it\rquote s because They\rquote ve placed a greater proportion of Their effort into robotics than We have. And that means that some other branch of endeavor has received a greater share of Our efforts than it has to Theirs. It would mean We\rquote re ahead in force-field research or in hyperatomics, perhaps.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lynn felt distressed at his own statement that the stalemate wasn\rquote t perfect. It was true enough, but that was the one great danger threatening the world. The world depended on the stalemate being as perfect as possible. If the small unevennesses that always existed overbalanced too far in one direction or the other\par
\tab Almost at the beginning of what had been the Cold War, both sides had developed thermonuclear weapons, and war became unthinkable. Competition switched from the military to the economic and psychological and had stayed there ever since. \par
\tab But always there was the driving effort on each side to break the stalemate, to develop a parry for every possible thrust, to develop a thrust that could not be parried in time--something that would make war possible again. And that was not because either side wanted war so desperately, but because both were afraid that the other side would make the crucial discovery first. \par
\tab For a hundred years each side had kept the struggle even. And in the process, peace had been maintained for a hundred years while, as byproducts of the continuously intensive research, force fields had been produced and solar energy and insect control and robots. Each side was making a beginning in the understanding of mentalics, which was the name given to the biochemistry and biophysics of thought. Each side had its outposts on the Moon and on Mars. Mankind was advancing in giant strides under forced draft. \par
\tab It was even necessary for both sides to be as decent and humane as possible among themselves, lest through cruelty and tyranny, friends be made for the other side. \par
\tab It couldn\rquote t be that the stalemate would now be broken and that there would be war. \par
\tab Lynn said, \ldblquote I want to consult one of my men. I want his opinion. \par
\tab\ldblquote Is he trustworthy?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lynn looked disgusted. \ldblquote Good Lord, what man in Robotics has not been investigated and cleared to death by your people? Yes, I vouch for him. If you can\rquote t trust a man like Humphrey Carl Laszlo, then we\rquote re in no position to face the kind of attack you say They are launching, no matter what else we do.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ve heard of Laszlo,\rdblquote  said Breckenridge. \ldblquote Good. Does he pass?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Then, I\rquote ll have him in and we\rquote ll find out what he thinks about the possibility that robots could invade the U .S.A.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Not exactly,\rdblquote  said Breckenridge, softly. \ldblquote You still don\rquote t accept the full truth. Find out what he thinks about the fact that robots have \i already \i0 invaded the U.S.A.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Laszlo was the grandson of a Hungarian who had broken through what had then been called the Iron Curtain, and he had a comfortable above-suspicion feeling about himself because of it. He was thick-set and balding with a pugnacious look graven forever on his snub face, but his accent was clear Harvard and he was almost excessively soft-spoken. \par
\tab To Lynn, who was conscious that after years of administration he was no longer expert in the various phases of modem robotics, Laszlo was a comforting receptacle for complete knowledge. Lynn felt better because of the man\rquote s mere presence. \par
\tab Lynn said, \ldblquote What do you think?\rdblquote  A scowl twisted Laszlo\rquote s face ferociously. \ldblquote That They\rquote re that far ahead of us. Completely incredible. It would mean They\rquote ve produced humanoids that could not be told from humans at close quarters. It would mean a considerable advance in robo-mentalics.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote re personally involved,\rdblquote  said Breckenridge, coldly. \ldblquote Leaving professional pride out of account, exactly why is it impossible that They be ahead of Us?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Laszlo shrugged. \ldblquote I assure you that I\rquote m well acquainted with Their literature on robotics. I know approximately where They are.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You know approximately where They want you to \i think \i0 They are, is what you really mean,\rdblquote  corrected Breckenridge. \ldblquote Have you ever visited the other side?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I haven\rquote t,\rdblquote  said Laszlo, shortly. \ldblquote Nor you, Dr. Lynn?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lynn said, \ldblquote No, I haven\rquote t, either.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Breckenridge said, \ldblquote Has any robotics man visited the other side in twenty-five years?\rdblquote  He asked the question with a kind of confidence that indicated he knew the answer. \par
\tab For a matter of seconds, the atmosphere was heavy with thought. Discomfort crossed Lazlo\rquote s broad face. He said, \ldblquote As a matter of fact, They haven\rquote t held any conferences on robotics in a long time.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote In twenty-five years,\rdblquote  said Breckenridge. \ldblquote Isn\rquote t that significant?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Maybe,\rdblquote  said Laszlo, reluctantly. \ldblquote Something else bothers me, though. None of Them have ever come to Our conferences on robotics. None that I can remember.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Were They invited?\rdblquote  asked Breckenridge. \par
\tab Lynn, staring and worried, interposed quickly, \ldblquote Of course.\rdblquote  Breckenridge said, \ldblquote Do They refuse attendance to any other types of scientific conferences We hold?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t know,\rdblquote  said Laszlo. He was pacing the floor now. \ldblquote I haven\rquote t heard of any cases. Have you, Chief?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  said Lynn. \par
\tab Breckenridge said, \ldblquote Wouldn\rquote t you say it was as though They didn\rquote t want to be put in the position of having to return any such invitation? Or as though They were afraid one of Their men might talk too much?\rdblquote  \par
\tab That was exactly how it seemed, and Lynn felt a helpless conviction that Security\rquote s story was true after all steal over him. \par
\tab Why else had there been no contact between sides on robotics? There had been a cross-fertilizing trickle of researchers moving in both directions on a strictly one-for-one basis for years, dating back to the days of Eisenhower and Krushchev. There were a great many good motives for that: an honest appreciation of the supranational character of science; impulses of friendliness that are hard to wipe out completely in the individual human being; the desire to be exposed to a fresh and interesting outlook and to have your own slightly stale notions greeted by others as fresh and interesting. \par
\tab The governments themselves were anxious that this continue. There was always the obvious thought that by learning all you could and telling as little as you could, your own side would gain by the exchange. \par
\tab But not in the case of robotics. Not there. \par
\tab Such a little thing to carry conviction. And a thing, moreover, they had known all along. Lynn thought darkly: \i We\rquote ve taken the complacent way out. \par
\tab\i0 Because the other side had done nothing publicly on robotics, it had been tempting to sit back smugly and be comfortable in the assurance of superiority. Why hadn\rquote t it seemed possible, even likely, that They were hiding superior cards, a trump hand, for the proper time? \par
\tab Laszlo said shakenly, \ldblquote What do we do?\rdblquote  It was obvious that the same line of thought had carried the same conviction to him. \par
\tab\ldblquote Do?\rdblquote  parroted Lynn. It was hard to think right now of anything but the complete horror that came with conviction. There were ten humanoid robots somewhere in the United States, each one carrying a fragment of a TC bomb. \par
\tab TC! The race for sheer horror in bombery had ended there. TCI Total Conversion! The sun was no longer a synonym one could use. Total conversion made the sun a penny candle. \par
\tab Ten humanoids, each completely harmless in separation, could, by the simple act of coming together, exceed critical mass and Lynn rose to his feet heavily, the dark pouches under his eyes, which ordinarily lent his ugly face a look of savage foreboding, more prominent than ever. \ldblquote It\rquote s going to be up to us to figure out ways and means of telling a humanoid from a human and then finding the humanoids.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote How quickly?\rdblquote  muttered Laszlo. \par
\tab\ldblquote Not later than five minutes before they get together,\rdblquote  barked Lynn, \ldblquote and I don\rquote t know when that will be.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Breckenridge nodded. \ldblquote I\rquote m glad you\rquote re with us now, sir, I\rquote m to bring you back to Washington for conference, you know.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lynn raised his eyebrows. \ldblquote All right.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He wondered if, had he delayed longer in being convinced, he might not have been replaced forthwith--if some other Chief of the Bureau of Robotics might not be conferring in Washington. He suddenly wished earnestly that exactly that had come to pass. \par
\tab The First Presidential Assistant was there, the Secretary of Science, the Secretary of Security, Lynn himself, and Breckenridge. Five of them sitting about a table in the dungeons of an underground fortress near Washington. \par
\tab Presidential Assistant Jeffreys was an impressive man, handsome in a white-haired and just-a-trifle-jowly fashion, solid, thoughtful and as unobtrusive, politically, as a Presidential Assistant ought to be. \par
\tab He spoke incisively. \ldblquote There are three questions that face us as I see it. First, when are the humanoids going to get together? Second, where are they going to get together? Third, how do we stop them before they get together?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Secretary of Science Amberley nodded convulsively at that. He had been Dean of Northwestern Engineering before his appointment. He was thin, sharp-featured and noticeably edgy. His forefinger traced slow circles on the table\par
\tab\ldblquote As far as \i when \i0 they\rquote ll get together,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote I suppose it\rquote s definite that it won\rquote t be for some time.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Why do you say that?\rdblquote  asked Lynn sharply. \par
\tab\ldblquote They\rquote ve been in the U.S. at least a month already. So Security says.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lynn turned automatically to look at Breckenridge, and Secretary of Security Macalaster intercepted the glance. Macalaster said, \ldblquote The information is reliable. Don\rquote t let Breckenridge\rquote s apparent youth fool you, Dr. Lynn. That\rquote s part of his value to us. Actually, he\rquote s thirty-four and has been with the department for ten years. He has been in Moscow for nearly a year and without him, none of this terrible danger would be known to us. As it is, we have most of the details.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Not the crucial ones,\rdblquote  said Lynn. \par
\tab Macalaster of Security smiled frostily. His heavy chin and close-set eyes were well-known to the public but almost nothing else about him was. He said, \ldblquote We are all finitely human, Dr. Lynn. Agent Breckenridge has done a great deal.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Presidential Assistant Jeffreys cut in. \ldblquote Let us say we have a certain amount of time. If action at the instant were necessary, it would have happened before this. It seems likely that they are waiting for a specific time. If we knew the place, perhaps the time would become self-evident. \par
\tab\ldblquote If they are going to TC a target, they will want to cripple us as much as possible, so it would seem that a major city would have to be it. In any case, a major metropolis is the only target worth a TC bomb. I think there are four possibilities: Washington, as the administrative center; New York, as the financial center; and Detroit and Pittsburgh as the two chief industrial centers.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Macalaster of Security said, \ldblquote I vote for New York. Administration and industry have both been decentralized to the point where the destruction of anyone particular city won\rquote t prevent instant retaliation.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Then why New York?\rdblquote  asked Amberly of Science, perhaps more sharply than he intended. \ldblquote Finance has been decentralized as well.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote A question of morale. It may be they intend to destroy our will to resist, to induce surrender by the sheer horror of the first blow. The greatest destruction of human life would be in the New York Metropolitan area--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Pretty cold-blooded,\rdblquote  muttered Lynn. \ldblquote I know,\rdblquote  said Macalaster of Security, \ldblquote but they\rquote re capable of it, if they thought it would mean final victory at a stroke. Wouldn\rquote t we--\rdblquote  \par
\tab Presidential Assistant Jeffreys brushed back his white hair. \ldblquote Let\rquote s assume the worst. Let\rquote s assume that New York will be destroyed some time during the winter, preferably immediately after a serious blizzard when communications are at their worst and the disruption of utilities and food supplies in fringe areas will be most serious in their effect. Now, how do we stop them?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Amberley of Science could only say, \ldblquote Finding ten men in two hundred and twenty million is an awfully small needle in an awfully large haystack.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Jeffreys shook his head. \ldblquote You have it wrong. Ten humanoids among two hundred twenty million humans.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No difference,\rdblquote  said Amberley of Science. \ldblquote We don\rquote t know that a humanoid can be differentiated from a human at sight. Probably not.\rdblquote  He looked at Lynn. They all did. \par
\tab Lynn said heavily, \ldblquote We in Cheyenne couldn\rquote t make one that would pass as human in the daylight.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But They can,\rdblquote  said Macalaster of Security, \ldblquote and not only physically. We\rquote re sure of that. They\rquote ve advanced mentalic procedures to the point where They can reel off the micro-electronic pattern of the brain and focus it on the positronic pathways of the robot.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lynn stared. \ldblquote Are you implying that They can create the replica of a human being complete with personality and memory?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I am.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Of specific human beings?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s right.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Is this also based on Agent Breckenridge\rquote s findings?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes. The evidence can\rquote t be disputed.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lynn bent his head in thought for a moment. Then he said, \ldblquote Then ten men in the United States are not men but humanoids. But the originals would have had to be available to them. They couldn\rquote t be Orientals, who would be too easy to spot, so they would have to be East Europeans. How would they be introduced into this country, then? With the radar network over the entire world border as tight as a drum, how could They introduce any individual, human or humanoid, without our knowing it?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Macalaster of Security said, \ldblquote It can be done. There are certain legitimate seepages across the border. Businessmen, pilots, even tourists. They\rquote re watched, of course, on both sides. Still ten of them might have been kidnaped and used as models for humanoids. The humanoids would then be sent back in their place. Since we wouldn\rquote t expect such a substitution, it would pass us by. If they were Americans to begin with, there would be no difficulty in their getting into this country. It\rquote s as simple as that.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And even their friends and family could not tell the difference?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We must assume so. Believe me, we\rquote ve been waiting for any report that might imply sudden attacks of amnesia or troublesome changes in personality. We\rquote ve checked on thousands.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Amberley of Science stared at his finger tips. \ldblquote I think ordinary measures won\rquote t work. The attack must come from the Bureau of Robotics and I depend on the chief of that bureau.\rdblquote  Again eyes turned sharply, expectantly, on Lynn. Lynn felt bitterness rise. It seemed to him that this was what the conference came to and was intended for. Nothing that had been said had not been said before. He was sure of that. There was no solution to the problem, no pregnant suggestion. It was a device for the record, a device on the part of men who gravely feared defeat and who wished the responsibility for it placed clearly and unequivocally on someone else. \par
\tab And yet there was justice in it. It was in robotics that We had fallen short. And Lynn was not Lynn merely. He was Lynn of Robotics and the responsibility had to be his. \par
\tab He said, \ldblquote I will do what I can.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He spent a wakeful night and there was a haggardness about both body and soul when he sought and attained another interview with Presidential Assistant Jeffreys the next morning. Breckenridge was there, and though Lynn would have preferred a private conference, he could see the justice in the situation. It was obvious that Breckenridge had attained enormous influence with the government as a result of his successful Intelligence work. Well, why not? \par
\tab Lynn said, \ldblquote Sir, I am considering the possibility that we are hopping uselessly to enemy piping.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote In what way?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m sure that however impatient the public may grow at times, and however legislators sometimes find it expedient to talk, the government at least recognizes the world stalemate to be beneficial. They must recognize it also. Ten humanoids with one TC bomb is a trivial way of breaking the stalemate.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The destruction of fifteen million human beings is scarcely trivial.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It is from the world power standpoint. It would not so demoralize us to make us surrender or so cripple us as to convince us we could not win. There would just be the same old planetary death war that both sides have avoided so long and so successfully. And all They would have accomplished is to force us to fight minus one city. It\rquote s not enough.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What do you suggest?\rdblquote  said Jeffreys coldly. \ldblquote That They do not have ten humanoids in our country? That there is not a TC bomb waiting to get together?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ll agree that those things are here, but perhaps for some reason greater than just midwinter bomb madness.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Such as?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It may be that the physical destruction resulting from the humanoids getting together is not the worst thing that can happen to us. What about the moral and intellectual destruction that comes of their being here at all? With all due respect to Agent Breckenridge, what if They \i intended \i0 for us to find out about the humanoids; what if the humanoids are never supposed to get together, but merely to remain separate in order to give us something to worry about.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Why?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Tell me this. What measures have already been taken against the humanoids? I suppose that Security is going through the files of all citizens who have ever been across the border or close enough to it to make kidnapping possible. I know, since Macalaster mentioned it yesterday, that they are following up suspicious psychiatric cases. What else?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Jeffreys said, \ldblquote Small X-ray devices are being installed in key places in the large cities. In the mass arenas, for instance--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Where ten humanoids might slip in among a hundred thousand spectators of a football game or an air-polo match?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Exactly.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And concert halls and churches?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote We must start somewhere. We can\rquote t do it all at once.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Particularly when panic must be avoided,\rdblquote  said Lynn. \ldblquote Isn\rquote t that so? It wouldn\rquote t do to have the public realize that at any unpredictable moment, some unpredictable city and its human contents would suddenly cease to exist.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I suppose that\rquote s obvious. What are you driving at?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lynn said strenuously, \ldblquote That a growing fraction of our national effort will be diverted entirely into the nasty problem of what Amberley called finding a very small needle in a very large haystack. We\rquote ll be chasing our tails madly, while They increase their research lead to the point where we find we can no longer catch up; when we must surrender without the chance even of snapping our fingers in retaliation. \par
\tab\ldblquote Consider further that this news will leak out as more and more people become involved in our countermeasures and more and more people begin to guess what we\rquote re doing. Then what? The panic might do us more harm than anyone TC bomb.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The Presidential Assistant said irritably, \ldblquote In Heaven\rquote s name, man, what do you suggest we do, then?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Nothing,\rdblquote  said Lynn. \ldblquote Call their bluff. Live as we have lived and gamble that They won\rquote t dare break the stalemate for the sake of a one-bomb head start.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Impossible!\rdblquote  said Jeffreys. \ldblquote Completely impossible. The welfare of all of Us is very largely in my hands, and doing nothing is the one thing I cannot do. I agree with you, perhaps, that X-ray machines at sports arenas are a kind of skin-deep measure that won\rquote t be effective, but it has to be done so that people, in the aftermath, do not come to the bitter conclusion that we tossed our country away for the sake of a subtle line of reasoning that encouraged donothingism. In fact, our counter-gambit will be active indeed.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote In what way?\rdblquote  Presidential Assistant Jeffreys looked at Breckenridge. The young Security officer, hitherto calmly silent, said, \ldblquote It\rquote s no use talking about a possible future break in the stalemate when the stalemate is broken now. It doesn\rquote t matter whether these humanoids explode or do not. Maybe they \i are \i0 only a bait to divert us, as you say. But the fact remains that we are a quarter of a century behind in robotics, and that may be fatal. What other advances in robotics will there be to surprise us if war does start? The only answer is to divert our entire force immediately, now, into a crash program of robotics research, and the first problem is to find the humanoids. Call it an exercise in robotics, if you will, or call it the prevention of the death of fifteen million men, women and children.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lynn shook his head helplessly. \ldblquote You \i can\rquote t. \i0 You\rquote d be playing into their hands. They want us lured into the one blind alley while they\rquote re free to advance in all other directions.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Jeffreys said impatiently, \ldblquote That\rquote s your guess. Breckenridge has made his suggestion through channels and the government has approved, and we will begin with an all-Science conference.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote All-Science?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Breckenridge said, \ldblquote We have listed every important scientist of every branch of natural science. They\rquote ll all be at Cheyenne. There will be only one point on the agenda: How to advance robotics. The major specific subheading under that will be: How to develop a receiving device for the electromagnetic fields of the cerebral cortex that will be sufficiently delicate to distinguish between a protoplasmic human brain and a positronic humanoid brain.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Jeffreys said, \ldblquote We had hoped you would be willing to be in charge of the conference.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I was not consulted in this.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Obviously time was short, sir. Do you agree to be in charge?\rdblquote  Lynn smiled briefly. It was a matter of responsibility again. The responsibility must be clearly that of Lynn of Robotics. He had the feeling it would be Breckenridge who would really be in charge. But what could he do? \par
\tab He said, \ldblquote I agree.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Breckenridge and Lynn returned together to Cheyenne, where that evening Laszlo listened with a sullen mistrust to Lynn\rquote s description of coming events. \par
\tab Laszlo said, \ldblquote While you were gone, Chief, I\rquote ve started putting five experimental models of humanoid structure through the testing procedures. Our men are on a twelve-hour day, with three shifts overlapping. If we\rquote ve got to arrange a conference, we\rquote re going to be crowded and red-taped out of everything. Work will come to a halt.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Breckenridge said, \ldblquote That will be only temporary. You will gain more than you lose.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Laszlo scowled. \ldblquote A bunch of astrophysicists and geochemists around won\rquote t help a damn toward robotics.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Views from specialists of other fields may be helpful.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Are you sure? How do we know that there \i is \i0 any way of detecting brain waves or that, even if we can, there is a way of differentiating human and humanoid by wave pattern? Who set up the project, anyway?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I did,\rdblquote  said Breckenridge. \par
\tab\ldblquote You did? Are you a robotics man?\rdblquote  \par
\tab The young Security agent said calmly, \ldblquote I have studied robotics.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s not the same thing.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ve had access to text material dealing with Russian robotics--in Russian. Top-secret material well in advance of anything you have here.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lynn said ruefully, \ldblquote He has us there, Laszlo.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It was on the basis of that material,\rdblquote  Breckenridge went on, \ldblquote that I suggested this particular line of investigation. It is reasonably certain that in copying off the electromagnetic pattern of a specific human mind into a specific positronic brain, a perfectly exact duplicate cannot be made. For one thing, the most complicated positronic brain small enough to fit into a human-sized skull is hundreds of times less complex than the human brain. It can\rquote t pick up all the overtones, therefore, and there must be some way to take advantage of that fact.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Laszlo looked impressed despite himself and Lynn smiled grimly. It was easy to resent Breckenridge and the coming intrusion of several hundred scientists of nonrobotics specialties, but the problem itself was an intriguing one. There was that consolation, at least. \par
\tab It came to him quietly. Lynn found he had nothing to do but sit in his office alone, with an executive position that had grown merely titular. Perhaps that helped. It gave him time to think, to picture the creative scientists of half the world converging on Cheyenne. \par
\tab It was Breckenridge who, with cool efficiency, was handling the details of preparation. There had been a kind of confidence in the way he said, \ldblquote Let\rquote s get together and we\rquote ll lick Them.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Let\rquote s get together. It came to Lynn so quietly that anyone watching Lynn at that moment might have seen his eyes blink slowly twice--but surely nothing more. \par
\tab He did what he had to do with a whirling detachment that kept him calm when he felt that, by all rights, he ought to be going mad. \par
\tab He sought out Breckenridge in the other\rquote s improvised quarters. Breckenridge was alone and frowning. \ldblquote Is anything wrong, sir?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lynn said wearily, \ldblquote Everything\rquote s right, I think. I\rquote ve invoked martial-law.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote As chief of a division I can do so if I am of the opinion the situation warrants it. Over my division I can then be dictator. Chalk up one for the beauties of decentralization.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You will rescind that order immediately.\rdblquote  Breckenridge took a step forward. \ldblquote When Washington hears this, you will be ruined.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m ruined anyway. Do you think I don\rquote t realize that I\rquote ve been set up for the role of the greatest villain in American history: the man who let Them break the stalemate? I have nothing to lose--and perhaps a great deal to gain.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He laughed a little wildly. \ldblquote What a target the Division of Robotics will be, eh, Breckenridge? Only a few thousand men to be killed by a TC bomb capable of wiping out three hundred square miles in one micro-second. But five hundred of those men would be our greatest scientists. We would be in the peculiar position of having to fight a war with our brains shot out, or surrendering. I think we\rquote d surrender.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But this is impossible. Lynn, do you hear me? Do you understand? How could the humanoids pass our security provisions? How could they get together?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But they \i are \i0 getting together! We\rquote re helping them to do so. We\rquote re ordering them to do so. Our scientists visit the other side, Breckenridge. They visit Them regularly. You made a point of how strange it was that no one in robotics did. Well, ten of those scientists are still there and in their place, ten humanoids are converging on Cheyenne.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s a ridiculous guess.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I think it\rquote s a good one, Breckenridge. But it wouldn\rquote t work unless we knew humanoids were in America so that we would call the conference in the first place. Quite a coincidence that you brought the news of the humanoids \i and \i0 suggested the conference \i and \i0 suggested the agenda \i and \i0 are running the show \i and \i0 know exactly which scientists were invited. Did you make sure the right ten were included?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Dr. Lynn!\rdblquote  cried Breckenridge in outrage. He poised to rush forward. \par
\tab Lynn said, \ldblquote Don\rquote t move. I\rquote ve got a blaster here. Well just wait for the scientists to get here one by one. One by one we\rquote ll X-ray them. One by one, we\rquote ll monitor them for radioactivity. No two will get together without being checked, and if all five hundred are clear, I\rquote ll give you my blaster and surrender to you. Only I think we\rquote ll find the ten humanoids. Sit down, Breckenridge.\rdblquote  \par
\tab They both sat. Lynn said, \ldblquote We wait. When I\rquote m tired, Laszlo will spell me. We wait.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Professor Manuelo Jiminez of the Institute of Higher Studies of Buenos Aires exploded while the stratospheric jet on which he traveled was three miles above the Amazon Valley. It was a simple chemical explosion but it was enough to destroy the plane. \par
\tab Dr. Herman Liebowitz of M.I.T. exploded in a monorail, killing twenty people and injuring a hundred others. \par
\tab In similar manner, Dr. Auguste Marin of L \lquote Institut Nucleonique of Montreal and seven others died at various stages of their journey to Cheyenne. \par
\tab Laszlo hurtled in, pale-faced and stammering, with the first news of it. It had only been two hours that Lynn had sat there, facing Breckenridge, blaster in hand. \par
\tab Laszlo said, \ldblquote I thought you were nuts, Chief, but you were right. They \i were \i0 humanoids. They \i had \i0 to be.\rdblquote  He turned to stare with hate-filled eyes at Breckenridge. \ldblquote Only they were warned. He warned them, and now there won\rquote t be one left intact. Not one to study.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote God!\rdblquote  cried Lynn and in a frenzy of haste thrust his blaster out toward Breckenridge and fired. The Security man\rquote s neck vanished; the torso fell; the head dropped, thudded against the floor and rolled crookedly. \par
\tab Lynn moaned, \ldblquote I didn\rquote t understand, I thought he was a traitor. Nothing more.\rdblquote  \par
\tab And Laszlo stood immobile, mouth open, for the moment incapable of speech. \par
\tab Lynn said wildly, \ldblquote Sure, he warned them. But how could he do so while sitting in that chair unless he were equipped with built-in radio transmission? Don\rquote t you see it? Breckenridge had been in Moscow. The real Breckenridge is still there. Oh my God, there were \i eleven \i0 of them.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Laszlo managed a hoarse squeak. \ldblquote Why didn\rquote t \i he \i0 explode?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote He was hanging on, I suppose, to make sure the others had received his message and were safely destroyed. Lord, Lord, when you brought the news and I realized the truth, I couldn\rquote t shoot fast enough. God knows by how few seconds I may have beaten him to it.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Laszlo said shakily, \ldblquote At least, we\rquote ll have one to study.\rdblquote  He bent and put his fingers on the sticky fluid trickling out of the mangled remains at the neck end of the headless body. \par
\tab Not blood, but high-grade machine oil. \par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Mirror Image \par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\i The Three Laws of Robotics \par
\pard\fi-288\li1008 1. A robot may not injure a human being or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm. \par
2. A robot must obey the orders given it by human beings except where such orders would conflict with the First Law. \par
3. A robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Law. \par
\pard\par
\tab\i0 Lije Baley had just decided to relight his pipe, when the door of his office opened without a preliminary knock, or announcement, of any kind. Baley looked up in pronounced annoyance and then dropped his pipe. It said a good deal for the state of his mind that he left it lie where it had fallen. \par
\tab\ldblquote R. Daneel Olivaw,\rdblquote  he said, in a kind of mystified excitement. \ldblquote Jehoshaphat! It \i is \i0 you, isn\rquote t it?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You are quite right, \ldblquote  said the tall, bronzed newcomer, his even features never flicking for a moment out of their accustomed calm. \ldblquote I regret surprising you by entering without warning, but the situation is a delicate one and there must be as little involvement as possible on the part of the men and robots even in this place. I am, in any case, pleased to see you again, friend Elijah.\rdblquote  \par
\tab And the robot held out his right hand in a gesture as thoroughly human as was his appearance. It was Baley who was so unmanned by his astonishment as to stare at the hand with a momentary lack of understanding. \par
\tab But then he seized it in both his, feeling its warm firmness. \ldblquote But Daneel, \i why? \i0 You\rquote re welcome any time, but--What is this situation that is a delicate one? Are we in trouble again? Earth, I mean?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No, friend Elijah, it does not concern Earth. The situation to which I refer as a delicate one is, to outward appearances, a small thing. A dispute between mathematicians, nothing more. As we happened, quite by accident, to be within an easy Jump of Earth--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote This dispute took place on a starship, then?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, indeed. A small dispute, yet to the humans involved astonishingly large.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Baley could not help but smile. \ldblquote I\rquote m not surprised you find humans astonishing. They do not obey the Three Laws.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That is, indeed, a shortcoming,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel, Gravely, \ldblquote and I think humans themselves are puzzled by humans. It may be that you are less puzzled than are the men of other worlds because so many more human beings live on Earth than on the Spacer worlds. If so, and I believe it is so, you could help us.\rdblquote  \par
\tab R. Daneel paused momentarily and then said, perhaps a shade too quickly, \ldblquote And yet there are rules of human behavior which I have learned. It would seem, for instance, that I am deficient in etiquette, by human standards, not to have asked after your wife and child.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote They are doing well. The boy is in college and Jessie is involved in local politics. The amenities are taken care of. Now tell me how you come to be here.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab\ldblquote As I said, we were within an easy J ump of Earth,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel, \ldblquote so I suggested to the captain that we consult you.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And the captain agreed?\rdblquote  Baley had a sudden picture of the proud and autocratic captain of a Spacer starship consenting to make a landing on Earth--of all worlds--and to consult an Earthman--of all people. \par
\tab\ldblquote I believe,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel, \ldblquote that he was in a position where he would have agreed to anything. In addition, I praised you very highly; although, to be sure, I stated only the truth. Finally, I agreed to conduct all negotiations so that none of the crew, or passengers, would need to enter any of the Earthman cities.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And talk to any Earthman, yes. But what has happened?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The passengers of the starship, \i Eta Carina, \i0 included two mathematicians who were traveling to Aurora to attend an interstellar conference on neurobiophysics. It is about these mathematicians, Alfred Ban Humboldt and Gennao Sabbat, that the dispute centers. Have you perhaps, friend Elijah, heard of one, or both, of them?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Neither one,\rdblquote  said Baley, firmly. \ldblquote I know nothing about mathematics. Look, Daneel, surely you haven\rquote t told anyone I\rquote m a mathematics buff or--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Not at all, friend Elijah. I know you are not. Nor does it matter, since the exact nature of the mathematics involved is in no way relevant to the point at issue.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well, then, go on.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Since you do not know either man, friend Elijah, let me tell you that Dr. Humboldt is well into his twenty-seventh decade--pardon me, friend Elijah?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Nothing. Nothing,\rdblquote  said Baley, irritably. He had merely muttered to himself, more or less incoherently, in a natural reaction to the extended life-spans of the Spacers. \ldblquote And he\rquote s still active, despite his age? On Earth, mathematicians after thirty or so.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Daneel said, calmly; \ldblquote Dr. Humboldt is one of the top three mathematicians, by long-established repute, in the galaxy. Certainly he is still active. Dr. Sabbat, on the other hand, is quite young, not yet fifty, but he has already established himself as the most remarkable new talent in the most abstruse branches of mathematics.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote They\rquote re both great, then,\rdblquote  said Baley. He remembered his pipe and picked it up. He decided there was no point in lighting it now and knocked out the dottle. \ldblquote What happened? Is this a murder case? Did one of them apparently kill the other?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Of these two men of great reputation, one is trying to destroy that of the other. By human values, I believe this may be regarded as worse than physical murder.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Sometimes, I suppose. Which one is trying to destroy the other?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Why, that, friend Elijah, is precisely the point at issue. Which?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Go on.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Dr. Humboldt tells the story clearly. Shortly before he boarded the starship, he had an insight into a possible method for analyzing neural pathways from changes in microwave absorption patterns of local cortical areas. The insight was a purely mathematical technique of extraordinary subtlety, but I cannot, of course, either understand or sensibly transmit the details. These do not, however, matter. Dr. Humboldt considered the matter and was more convinced each hour that he had something revolutionary on hand, something that would dwarf all his previous accomplishments in mathematics. Then he discovered that Dr. Sabbat was on board.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Ah. And he tried it out on young Sabbat?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Exactly. The two had met at professional meetings before and knew each other thoroughly by reputation. Humboldt went into it with Sabbat in great detail. Sabbat backed Humboldt\rquote s analysis completely and was unstinting in his praise of the importance of the discovery and of the ingenuity of the discoverer. Heartened and reassured by this, Humboldt prepared a paper outlining, in summary, his work and, two days later, prepared to have it forwarded subetherically to the co-chairmen of the conference at Aurora, in order that he might officially establish his priority and arrange for possible discussion before the sessions were closed. To his surprise, he found that Sabbat was ready with a paper of his own, essentially the same as Humboldt\rquote s, and Sabbat was also preparing to have it subetherized to Aurora.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I suppose Humboldt was furious.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Quite!\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And Sabbat? What was his story?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Precisely the same as Humboldt\rquote s. Word for word.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then just what is the problem?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Except for the mirror-image exchange of names. According to Sabbat, it was he who had the insight, and he who consulted Humboldt; it was Humboldt who agreed with the analysis and praised it.\rdblquote\par
\tab  \ldblquote Then each one claims the idea is his and that the other stole it. It doesn\rquote t sound like a problem to me at all. In matters of scholarship, it would seem only necessary to produce the records of research, dated and initialed. Judgment as to priority can be made from that. Even if one is falsified, that might be discovered through internal inconsistencies.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Ordinarily, friend Elijah, you would be right, but this is mathematics, and not in an experimental science. Dr. Humboldt claims to have worked out the essentials in his head. Nothing was put in writing until the paper itself was prepared. Dr. Sabbat, of course, says precisely the same.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well, then, be more drastic and get it over with, for sure. Subject each one to a psychic probe and find out which of the two is lying.\rdblquote  \par
\tab R. Daneel shook his head slowly, \ldblquote Friend Elijah, you do not understand these men. They are both of rank and scholarship, Fellows of the Imperial Academy. As such, they cannot be subjected to trial of professional conduct except by a jury of their peers--their professional peers--unless they personally and voluntarily waive that right.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Put it to them, then. The guilty man won\rquote t waive the right because he can\rquote t afford to face the psychic probe. The innocent man will waive it at once. You won\rquote t even have to use the probe.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It does not work that way, friend Elijah. To waive the right in such a case--to be investigated by laymen--is a serious and perhaps irrecoverable blow to prestige. Both men steadfastly refuse to waive the right to special trial, as a matter of pride. The question of guilt, or innocence, is quite subsidiary.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote In that case, let it go for now. Put the matter in cold storage until you get to Aurora. At the neurobiophysical conference, there will be a huge supply of professional peers, and then--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That would mean a tremendous blow to science itself, friend Elijah. Both men would suffer for having been the instrument of scandal. Even the innocent one would be blamed for having been party to a situation so distasteful. It would be felt that it should have been settled quietly out of court at all costs.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote All right. I\rquote m not a Spacer, but I\rquote ll try to imagine that this attitude makes sense. What do the men in question say?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Humboldt agrees thoroughly. He says that if Sabbat will admit theft of the idea and allow Humboldt to proceed with transmission of the paper--or at least its delivery at the conference, he will not press charges. Sabbat\rquote s misdeed will remain secret with him; and, of course, with the captain, who is the only other human to be party to the dispute.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But young Sabbat will not agree?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote On the contrary, he agreed with Dr. Humboldt to the last detail--with the reversal of names. Still the mirror-image.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote So they just sit there, stalemated?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Each, I believe, friend Elijah, is waiting for the other to give in and admit guilt.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well, then, wait.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The captain has decided this cannot be done. There are two alternatives to waiting, you see. The first is that both will remain stubborn so that when the starship lands on Aurora, the intellectual scandal will break. The captain, who is responsible for justice on board ship will suffer disgrace for not having been able to settle the matter quietly and that, to him, is quite insupportable.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And the second alternative?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Is that one, or the other, of the mathematicians will indeed admit to wrongdoing. But will the one who confesses do so out of actual guilt, or out of a noble desire to prevent the scandal? Would it be right to deprive of credit one who is sufficiently ethical to prefer to lose that credit than to see science as a whole suffer? Or else, the guilty party will confess at the last moment, and in such a way as to make it appear he does so only for the sake of science, thus escaping the disgrace of his deed and casting its shadow upon the other. The captain will be the only man to know all this but he does not wish to spend the rest of his life wondering whether he has been a party to a grotesque miscarriage of justice.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Baley sighed. \ldblquote A game of intellectual chicken. Who\rquote ll break first as Aurora comes nearer and nearer? Is that the whole story now, Daneel?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Not quite. There are witnesses to the transaction.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab\ldblquote Jehoshaphat! Why didn\rquote t you say so at once. \i What \i0 witnesses? \par
\tab\ldblquote Dr. Humboldt\rquote s personal servant--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote A robot, I suppose.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, certainly. He is called R. Preston. This servant, R. Preston, was present during the initial conference and he bears out Dr. Humboldt in every detail.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You mean he says that the idea was Dr. Humboldt\rquote s to begin with; that Dr. Humboldt detailed it to Dr. Sabbat; that Dr. Sabbat praised the idea, and so on.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, in full detail.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I see. Does that settle the matter or not? Presumably not.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You are quite right. It does not settle the matter, for there is a second witness. Dr. Sabbat also has a personal servant, R. Idda, another robot of, as it happens, the same model as R. Preston, made, I believe, in the same year in the same factory. Both have been in service for an equal period of time. \par
\tab\ldblquote An odd coincidence--very odd.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote A fact, I am afraid, and it makes it difficult to arrive at any judgment based on obvious differences between the two servants.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote R. Idda, then, tells the same story as R. Preston?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Precisely the same story, except for the mirror-image reversal of the names.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote R. Idda stated, then, that young Sabbat, the one not yet fifty\rdblquote --Lije Baley did not entirely keep the sardonic note out of his voice; he himself was not yet fifty and he felt far from young--\rdblquote had the idea to begin with; that he detailed it to Dr. Humboldt, who was loud in his praises, and so on.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, friend Elijah.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And one robot is lying, then.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote So it would seem.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It should be easy to tell which. I imagine even a superficial examination by a good roboticist--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote A roboticist is not enough in this case, friend Elijah. Only a qualified robopsychologist would carry weight enough and experience enough to make a decision in a case of this importance. There is no one so qualified on board ship. Such an examination can be performed only when we reach Aurora--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And by then the crud hits the fan. Well, you\rquote re here on Earth. We can scare up a robopsychologist, and surely anything that happens on Earth will never reach the ears of Aurora and there will be no scandal.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Except that neither Dr. Humboldt, nor Dr. Sabbat, will allow his servant to be investigated by a robopsychologist of Earth. The Earthman would have to--\rdblquote  He paused. \par
\tab Lije Baley said stolidly, \ldblquote He\rquote d have to touch the robot.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote These are old servants, well thought of--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And not to be sullied by the touch of Earthman. Then what do you want me to do, damn it?\rdblquote  He paused, grimacing. \ldblquote I\rquote m sorry, R. Daneel, but I see no reason for your having involved me.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab\ldblquote I was on the ship on a mission utterly irrelevant to the problem at hand. The captain turned to me because he had to turn to someone. I seemed human enough to talk to, and robot enough to be a safe recipient of confidences. He told me the whole story and asked what I would do. I realized the next Jump could take us as easily to Earth as to our target. I told the captain that, although I was at as much a loss to resolve the mirror-image as he was, there was on Earth one who might help.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Jehoshaphat!\rdblquote  muttered Baley under his breath. \par
\tab\ldblquote Consider, friend Elijah, that if you succeed in solving this puzzle, it would do your career good and Earth itself might benefit. The matter could not be publicized, of course, but the captain is a man of some influence on his home world and he would be grateful.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You just put a greater strain on me.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I have every confidence,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel, stolidly, \ldblquote that you already have some idea as to what procedure ought to be followed.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Do you? I suppose that the obvious procedure is to interview the two mathematicians, one of whom would seem to be a thief.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m afraid, friend Elijah, that neither one will come into the city. Nor would either one be willing to have you come to them.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And there is no way of forcing a Spacer to allow contact with an Earthman, no matter what the emergency. Yes, I understand that, Daneel--but I was thinking of an interview by closed-circuit television.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Nor that. They will not submit to interrogation by an Earthman.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Then what do they want of me? Could I speak to the robots?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote They would not allow the robots to come here, either.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Jehoshaphat, Daneel. You\rquote ve come.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That was my own decision. I have permission, while on board ship, to make decisions of that sort without veto by any human being but the captain himself--and he was eager to establish the contact. I, having known you, decided that television contact was insufficient. I wished to shake your hand.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lije Baley softened. \ldblquote I appreciate that, Daneel, but I still honestly wish you could have refrained from thinking of me at all in this case. Can I talk to the robots by television at least?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That. I think, can be arranged.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Something, at least. That means I would be doing the work of a robopsychologist--in a crude sort of way.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But you are a detective, friend Elijah, not a robopsychologist.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, let it pass. Now before I see them, let\rquote s think a bit. Tell me: is it possible that both robots are telling the truth? Perhaps the conversation between the two mathematicians was equivocal. Perhaps it was of such a nature that each robot could honestly believe its own master was proprietor of the idea. Or perhaps one robot heard only one portion of the discussion and the other another portion, so that each could suppose its own master was proprietor of the idea.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That is quite impossible, friend Elijah. Both robots repeat the conversation in identical fashion. And the two repetitions are fundamentally inconsistent.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Then it is absolutely certain that one of the robots is lying?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Will I be able to see the transcript of all evidence given so far in the presence of the captain, if I should want to?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I thought you would ask that and I have copies with me.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Another blessing. Have the robots been cross-examined at all, and is that cross-examination included in the transcript?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The robots have merely repeated their tales. Cross-examination would be conducted only by robopsychologists.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Or by myself?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You are a detective, friend Elijah, not a--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote All right, R. Daneel. I\rquote ll try to get the Spacer psychology straight. A detective can do it because he isn\rquote t a robopsychologist. Let\rquote s think further. Ordinarily a robot will not lie, but he will do so if necessary to maintain the Three Laws. He might lie to protect, in legitimate fashion, his own existence in accordance with the Third Law. He is more apt to lie if that is necessary to follow a legitimate order given him by a human being in accordance with the Second Law. He is most apt to lie if that is necessary to save a human life, or to prevent harm from coming to a human in accordance with the First Law.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And in this case, each robot would be defending the professional reputation of his master, and would lie if it were necessary to do so. Under the circumstances, the professional reputation would be nearly equivalent to life and there might be a near-First-Law urgency to the lie.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yet by the lie, each servant would be harming the professional reputation of the other\rquote s master, friend Elijah.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote So it would, but each robot might have a clearer conception of the value of its own master\rquote s reputation and honestly judge it to be greater than that of the other\rquote s. The lesser harm would be done by his lie, he would suppose, than by the truth.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Having said that, Lije Baley remained quiet for a moment. Then he said, \ldblquote A1l right, then, can you arrange to have me talk to one of the robots--to R. Idda first, I think?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Dr. Sabbat\rquote s robot?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  said Baley, dryly, \ldblquote the young fellow\rquote s robot.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It will take me but a few minutes,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel. \ldblquote I have a micro-receiver outfitted with a projector. I will need merely a blank wall and I think this one will do if you will allow me to move some of these film cabinets.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Go ahead. Will I have to talk into a microphone of some sort?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, you will be able to talk in an ordinary manner. Please pardon me, friend Elijah, for a moment of further delay. I will have to contact the ship and arrange for R. Idda to be interviewed.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote If that will take some time, Daneel, how about giving me the transcripted material of the evidence so far.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab Lije Baley lit his pipe while R. Daneel set up the equipment, and leafed through the flimsy sheets he had been handed. \par
\tab The minutes passed and R. Daneel said, \ldblquote If you are ready, friend Elijah, R. Idda is. Or would you prefer a few more minutes with the transcript?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  sighed Baley, \ldblquote I\rquote m not learning anything new. Put him on and arrange to have the interview recorded and transcribed.\rdblquote  \par
\tab R. Idda, unreal in two-dimensional projection against the wall, was basically metallic in structure--not at all the humanoid creature that R. Daneel was. His body was tall but blocky, and there was very little to distinguish him from the many robots Baley had seen, except for minor structural details. \par
\tab Baley said, \ldblquote Greetings, R. Idda.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Greetings, sir,\rdblquote  said R. Idda, in a muted voice that sounded surprisingly humanoid. \par
\tab\ldblquote You are the personal servant of Gennao Sabbat, are you not?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I am sir.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote For how long, boy?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote For twenty-two years, sir.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And your master\rquote s reputation is valuable to you?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, sir.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Would you consider it of importance to protect that reputation?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, sir.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote As important to protect his reputation as his physical life?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, sir.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote As important to protect his reputation as the reputation of another.\rdblquote  \par
\tab R. Idda hesitated. He said, \ldblquote Such cases must be decided on their individual merit, sir. There is no way of establishing a general rule.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab Baley hesitated. These Spacer robots spoke more smoothly and intellectually than Earth-models did. He was not at all sure he could outthink one. \par
\tab He said, \ldblquote If you decided that the reputation of your master were more important than that of another, say, that of Alfred Barr Humboldt, would you lie to protect your master\rquote s reputation?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I would, sir.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Did you lie in your testimony concerning your master in his controversy with Dr. Humboldt?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No, sir.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But if you were lying, you would deny you were lying in order to protect that lie, wouldn\rquote t you?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, sir.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well, then,\rdblquote  said Baley, \ldblquote let\rquote s consider this. Your master, Gennao Sabbat, is a young man of great reputation in mathematics, but he is a young man. If, in this controversy with Dr. Humboldt, he had succumbed to temptation and had acted unethically, he would suffer a certain eclipse of reputation, but he is young and would have ample time to recover. He would have many intellectual triumphs ahead of him and men would eventually look upon this plagiaristic attempt as the mistake of a hot-blooded youth, deficient in judgment. It would be something that would be made up for in the future. \par
\tab\ldblquote If, on the other hand, it were Dr. Humboldt who succumbed to temptation, the matter would be much more serious. He is an old man whose great deeds have spread over centuries. His reputation has been unblemished hitherto. All of that, however, would be forgotten in the light of this one crime of his later years, and he would have no opportunity to make up for it in the comparatively short time remaining to him. There would be little more that he could accomplish. There would be so many more years of work ruined in Humboldt\rquote s case than in that of your master and so much less opportunity to win back his position. You see, don\rquote t you, that Humboldt faces the worse situation and deserves the greater consideration?\rdblquote  \par
\tab There was a long pause. Then R. Idda said, with unmoved voice, \ldblquote My evidence was a lie. It was Dr. Humboldt whose work it was, and my master has attempted, wrongfully, to appropriate the credit.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Baley said, \ldblquote Very well, boy. You are instructed to say nothing to anyone about this until given permission by the captain of the ship. You are excused.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The screen blanked out and Baley puffed at his pipe. \ldblquote Do you suppose the captain heard that, Daneel?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I am sure of it. He is the only witness, except for us.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Good. Now for the other.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But is there any point to that, friend Elijah, in view of what R. Idda has confessed?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Of course there is. R. Idda\rquote s confession means nothing.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Nothing?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Nothing at all. I pointed out that Dr. Humboldt\rquote s position was the worse. Naturally, if he were lying to protect Sabbat, he would switch to the truth as, in fact, he claimed to have done. On the other hand, if he were telling the truth, he would switch to a lie to protect Humboldt. It\rquote s still mirror-image and we haven\rquote t gained anything.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But then what will we gain by questioning R. Preston?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Nothing, if the minor-image were perfect--but it is not. After all, one of the robots \i is \i0 telling the truth to begin with, and one \i is \i0 lying to begin with, and that is a point of asymmetry. Let me see R. Preston. And if the transcription of R. Idda\rquote s examination is done, let me have it. \par
\par
\tab The projector came into use again. R. Preston stared out of it; identical with R. Idda in every respect, except for some trivial chest design. \par
\tab Baley said, \ldblquote Greetings, R. Preston.\rdblquote  He kept the record of R. Idda\rquote s examination before him as he spoke. \par
\tab\ldblquote Greetings, sir,\rdblquote  said R. Preston. His voice was identical with that of R. Idda. \par
\tab\ldblquote You are the personal servant of Alfred Ban Humboldt are you not?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I am, sir.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote For how long, boy?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote For twenty-two years, sir.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And your master\rquote s reputation is valuable to you?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, sir.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Would you consider it of importance to protect that reputation?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, sir.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote As important to protect his reputation as his physical life?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, sir.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote As important to protect his reputation as the reputation of another?\rdblquote  \par
\tab R. Preston hesitated. He said, \ldblquote Such cases must be decided on their individual merit, sir. There is no way of establishing a general rule.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Baley said, \ldblquote If you decided that the reputation of your master were more important than that of another, say, that of Gennao Sabbat, would you lie to protect your master\rquote s reputation?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I would, sir.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Did you lie in your testimony concerning your master in his controversy with Dr. Sabbat?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No, sir.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But if you were lying, you would deny you were lying, in order to protect that lie, wouldn\rquote t you?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, sir.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, then,\rdblquote  said Baley, \ldblquote let\rquote s consider this. Your master, Alfred Barr Humboldt, is an old man of great reputation in mathematics, but he is an old man. If, in this controversy with Dr. Sabbat, he had succumbed to temptation and had acted unethically, he would suffer a certain eclipse of reputation, but his great age and his centuries of accomplishments would stand against that and would win out. Men would look upon this plagiaristic attempt as the mistake of a perhaps-sick old man, no longer certain in judgment. \par
\tab\ldblquote If, on the other hand, it were Dr. Sabbat who had succumbed to temptation, the matter would be much more serious. He is a young man, with a far less secure reputation. He would ordinarily have centuries ahead of him in which he might accumulate knowledge and achieve great things. This will be closed to him, now, obscured by one mistake of his youth. He has a much longer future to lose than your master has. You see, don\rquote t you, that Sabbat faces the worse situation and deserves the greater consideration?\rdblquote  \par
\tab There was a long pause. Then R. Preston said, with unmoved voice, \ldblquote My evidence was as I--\rdblquote  \par
\tab At that point, he broke off and said nothing more. Baley said, \ldblquote Please continue, R. Preston.\rdblquote  \par
\tab There was no response. \par
\tab R. Daneel said, \ldblquote I am afraid, friend Elijah, that R. Preston is in stasis. He is out of commission.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well, then,\rdblquote  said Baley, \ldblquote we have finally produced an asymmetry. From this, we can see who the guilty person is.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote In what way, friend Elijah?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Think it out. Suppose you were a person who had committed no crime and that your personal robot were a witness to that. There would be nothing you need do. Your robot would tell the truth and bear you out. If, however, you were a person who \i had \i0 committed the crime, you would have to depend on your robot to lie. That would be a somewhat riskier position, for although the robot would lie, if necessary, the greater inclination would be to tell the truth, so that the lie would be less firm than the truth would be. To prevent that, the crime-committing person would very likely have to \i order \i0 the robot to lie. In this way, First Law would be strengthened by Second Law; perhaps very substantially strengthened.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That would seem reasonable,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel. \par
\tab\ldblquote Suppose we have one robot of each type. One robot would switch from truth, unreinforced, to the lie, and could do so after some hesitation, without serious trouble. The other robot would switch from the lie, \i strongly reinforced, \i0 to the truth, but could do so only at the risk of burning out various positronic-track-ways in his brain and falling into stasis.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And since R. Preston went into stasis--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote R. Preston\rquote s master, Dr. Humboldt, is the man guilty of plagiarism. If you transmit this to the captain and urge him to face Dr. Humboldt with the matter at once, he may force a confession. If so, I hope you will tell me immediately.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I will certainly do so. You will excuse me, friend Elijah? I must talk to the captain privately.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Certainly. Use the conference room. It is shielded.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab Baley could do no work of any kind in R. Daneel\rquote s absence. He sat in uneasy silence. A great deal would depend on the value of his analysis, and he was acutely aware of his lack of expertise in robotics. \par
\tab R. Daneel was back in half an hour--very nearly the longest half hour of Baley\rquote s life. \par
\tab There was no use, of course, in trying to determine what had happened from the expression of the humanoid\rquote s impassive face. Baley tried to keep his face impassive. \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, R. Daneel?\rdblquote  he asked. \par
\tab\ldblquote Precisely as you said, friend Elijah. Dr. Humboldt has confessed. He was counting, he said, on Dr. Sabbat giving way and allowing Dr. Humboldt to have this one last triumph. The crisis is over and you will find the captain grateful. He has given me permission to tell you that he admires your subtlety greatly and I believe that I, myself, will achieve favor for having suggested you.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Good,\rdblquote  said Baley, his knees weak and his forehead moist now that his decision had proven correct, \ldblquote but Jehoshaphat, R. Daneel, don\rquote t put me on the spot like that again, will you?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I will try not to, friend Elijah. All will depend, of course, on the importance of a crisis, on your nearness, and on certain other factors. Meanwhile, I have a question--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Was it not possible to suppose that passage from a lie to the truth was easy, while passage from the truth to a lie was difficult? And in that case, would not the robot in stasis have been going from a truth to a lie, and since R. Preston was in stasis, might one not have drawn the conclusion that it was Dr. Humboldt who was innocent and Dr. Sabbat who was guilty?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, R. Daneel. It was possible to argue that way, but it was the other argument that proved right. Humboldt did confess, didn\rquote t he?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote He did. But with arguments possible in both directions, how could you, friend Elijah, so quickly pick the correct one?\rdblquote  \par
\tab For a moment, Baley\rquote s lips twitched. Then he relaxed and they curved into a smile. \ldblquote Because, R. Daneel, I took into account human reactions, not robotic ones. I know more about human beings than about robots. In other words, I had an idea as to which mathematician was guilty before I ever interviewed the robots. Once I provoked an asymmetric response in them, I simply interpreted it in such a way as to place the guilt on the one I already believed to be guilty. The robotic response was dramatic enough to break down the guilty man; my own analysis of human behavior might not have been sufficient to do so.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I am curious to know what your analysis of human behavior was?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Jehoshaphat, R. Daneel; think, and you won\rquote t have to ask. There is another point of asymmetry in this tale of mirror-image besides the matter of true-and-false. There is the matter of the age of the two mathematicians; one is quite old and one is quite young.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, of course, but what then?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why, this. I can see a young man, flushed with a sudden, startling and revolutionary idea, consulting in the matter an old man whom he has, from his early student days, thought of as a demigod in the field. I can \i not \i0 see an old man, rich in honors and used to triumphs, coming up with a sudden, startling and revolutionary idea, consulting a man centuries his junior whom he is bound to think of as a young whippersnapper--or whatever term a Spacer would use. Then, too, if a young man had the chance, would he try to steal the idea of a revered demigod? It would be unthinkable. On the other hand, an old man, conscious of declining powers, might well snatch at one last chance of fame and consider a baby in the field to have no rights he was bound to observe. In short, it was not conceivable that Sabbat steal Humboldt\rquote s idea; and from both angles, Dr. Humboldt was guilty.\rdblquote  \par
\tab R. Daneel considered that for a long time. Then he held out his hand. \ldblquote I must leave now, friend Elijah. It was good to see you. May we meet again soon.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Baley gripped the robot\rquote s hand, warmly, \ldblquote If you don\rquote t mind, R. Daneel,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote not too soon.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page The Tercentenary Incident \par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\tab July 4, 2076--and for the third time the accident of the conventional system of numeration, based on powers of ten, had brought the last two digits of the year back to the fateful 76 that had seen the birth of the nation. \par
\tab It was no longer a nation in the old sense; it was rather a geographic expression; part of a greater whole that made up the Federation of all of humanity on Earth, together with its offshoots on the Moon and in the space colonies. By culture and heritage, however, the name and the \i idea \i0 lived on, and that portion of the planet signified by the old name was still the most prosperous and advanced region of the world....And the President of the United States was still the most powerful single figure in the Planetary Council. \par
\tab Lawrence Edwards watched the small figure of the President from his height of two hundred feet. He drifted lazily above the crowd, his flotron motor making a barely heard chuckle on his back, and what he saw looked exactly like what anyone would see on a holovision scene. How many times had he seen little figures like that in his living room, little figures in a cube of sunlight, looking as real as though they were living homunculi, except that you could put your hand through them. \par
\tab You couldn\rquote t put your hand through those spreading out in their tens of thousands over the open spaces surrounding the Washington Monument. And you couldn\rquote t put your hand through the President. You could reach out to him instead, touch him, and shake his hand. \par
\tab Edwards thought sardonically of the uselessness of that added element of tangibility and wished himself a hundred miles away, floating in air over some isolated wilderness, instead of here where he had to watch for any sign of disorder. There wouldn\rquote t be any necessity for his being here but for the mythology of the value of \ldblquote pressing the flesh.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Edwards was not an admirer of the President--Hugo Allen Winkler, fifty-seventh of the line. \par
\tab To Edwards, President Winkler seemed an empty man, a charmer, a vote grabber, a promiser. He was a disappointing man to have in office now after all the hopes of those first months of his administration. The World Federation was in danger of breaking up long before its job had been completed and Winkler could do nothing about it. One needed a strong hand now, not a glad hand; a hard voice, not a honey voice. \par
\tab There he was now, shaking hands--a space forced around him by the Service, with Edwards himself, plus a few others of the Service, watching from above. \par
\tab The President would be running for re-election certainly, and there seemed a good chance he might be defeated. That would just make things worse, since the opposition party was dedicated to the destruction of the Federation. \par
\tab Edwards sighed. It would be a miserable four years coming up--maybe a miserable forty--and all he could do was float in the air, ready to reach every Service agent on the ground by laser-phone if there was the slightest\par
\tab He didn\rquote t see the slightest. There was no sign of disturbance. Just a little puff of white dust, hardly visible; just a momentary glitter in the sunlight, up and away, gone as soon as he was aware of it. \par
\tab Where was the President? He had lost sight of him in the dust. He looked about in the vicinity of where he had seen him last. The President could not have moved far. \par
\tab Then he became aware of disturbance. First it was among the Service agents themselves, who seemed to have gone off their heads and to be moving this way and that jerkily. Then those among the crowd near them caught the contagion and then those farther off. The noise rose and became a thunder. \par
\tab Edwards didn\rquote t have to hear the words that made up the rising roar. It seemed to carry the news to him by nothing more than its mass clamorous urgency. President Winkler had disappeared! He had been there one moment and had turned into a handful of vanishing dust the next. \par
\tab Edwards held his breath in an agony of waiting during what seemed a drug-ridden eternity, for the long moment of realization to end and for the mob to break into a mad, rioting stampede. \par
\tab --When a resonant voice sounded over the gathering din, and at its sound, the noise faded, died, and became a silence. It was as though it were all a holovision program after all and someone had turned the sound down and out. \par
\tab Edwards thought: My God, it\rquote s the President. There was no mistaking the voice. Winkler stood on the guarded stage from which he was to give his Tercentenary speech, and from which he had left but ten minutes ago to shake hands with some in the crowd. \par
\tab How had he gotten back there? Edwards listened\par
\tab\ldblquote Nothing has happened to me, my fellow Americans. What you have seen just now was the breakdown of a mechanical device. It was not your President, so let us not allow a mechanical failure to dampen the celebration of the happiest day the world has yet seen....My fellow Americans, give me your attention--\rdblquote  \par
\tab And what followed was the Tercentenary speech, the greatest speech Winkler had ever made, or Edwards had ever heard. Edwards found himself forgetting his supervisory job in his eagerness to listen. \par
\tab Winkler had it right! He understood the importance of the Federation and he was getting it \i across. \par
\tab\i0 Deep inside, though, another part of him was remembering the persistent rumors that the new expertise in robotics had resulted in the construction of a look-alike President, a robot who could perform the purely ceremonial functions, who could shake hands with the crowd, who could be neither bored nor exhausted--nor assassinated. \par
\tab Edwards thought, in obscure shock, that that was how it had happened. There had been such a look-alike robot indeed, and in a way--it had been assassinated. \par
\tab October 13, 2078\par
\tab Edwards looked up as the waist-high robot guide approached and said mellifluously, \ldblquote Mr. Janek will see you now.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Edwards stood up, feeling tall as he towered above the stubby, metallic guide. He did not feel young, however. His face had gathered lines in the last two years or so and he was aware of it. \par
\tab He followed the guide into a surprisingly small room, where, behind a surprisingly small desk, there sat Francis Janek, a slightly paunchy and incongruously young-looking man. \par
\tab Janek smiled and his eyes were friendly as he rose to shake hands. \ldblquote Mr. Edwards.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Edwards muttered, \ldblquote I\rquote m glad to have the opportunity, sir--\rdblquote  Edwards had never seen Janek before, but then the job of personal secretary to the President is a quiet one and makes little news. \par
\tab Janek said, \ldblquote Sit down. Sit down. Would you care for a soya stick?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Edwards smiled a polite negative, and sat down. Janek was clearly emphasizing his youth. His ruffied shirt was open and the hairs on his chest had been dyed a subdued but definite violet. \par
\tab Janek said, \ldblquote I know you have been trying to reach me for some weeks now. I\rquote m sorry for the delay. I hope you understand that my time is not entirely my own. However, we\rquote re here now....I have referred to the Chief of the Service, by the way, and he gave you very high marks. He regrets your resignation.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Edwards said, eyes downcast, \ldblquote It seemed better to carry on my investigations without danger of embarrassment to the Service.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Janek\rquote s smile flashed. \ldblquote Your activities, though discreet, have not gone unnoticed, however. The Chief explains that you have been investigating the Tercentenary Incident, and I must admit it was that which persuaded me to see you as soon as I could. You\rquote ve given up your position for that? You\rquote re investigating a dead issue.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote How can it be a dead issue, Mr. Janek? Your calling it an Incident doesn\rquote t alter the fact that it was an assassination attempt.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote A matter of semantics. Why use a disturbing phrase?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Only because it would seem to represent a disturbing truth. Surely you would say that someone tried to kill the President.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Janek spread his hands. \ldblquote If that is so, the plot did not succeed. A mechanical device was destroyed. Nothing more. In fact, if we look at it properly, the Incident--whatever you choose to call it--did the nation and the world an enormous good. As we all know, the President was shaken by the Incident and the nation as well. The President and all of us realized what a return to the violence of the last century might mean and it produced a great turnaround.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I can\rquote t deny that.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Of course you can\rquote t. Even the President\rquote s enemies will grant that the last two years have seen great accomplishments. The Federation is far stronger today than anyone could have dreamed it would be on that Tercentenary day. We might even say that a breakup of the global economy has been prevented.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Edwards said cautiously, \ldblquote Yes, the President is a changed man. Everyone says so.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Janek said, \ldblquote He was a great man always. The Incident made him concentrate on the great issues with a fierce intensity, however.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Which he didn\rquote t do before?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Perhaps not quite as intensely....In effect then, the President, and all of us, would like the Incident forgotten. My main purpose in seeing you, Mr. Edwards, is to make that plain to you. This is not the Twentieth Century and we can\rquote t throw you in jail for being inconvenient to us, or hamper you in any way, but even the Global Charter doesn\rquote t forbid us to attempt persuasion. Do you understand me?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I understand you, but I do not agree with you. Can we forget the Incident when the person responsible has never been apprehended?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Perhaps that is just as well, too, sir. Far better that some, uh, unbalanced person escape than that the matter be blown out of proportion and the stage set, possibly, for a return to the days of the Twentieth Century.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The official story even states that the robot spontaneously exploded--which is impossible, and which has been an unfair blow to the robot industry.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote A robot is not the term I would use, Mr. Edwards. It was a mechanical device. No one has said that robots are dangerous, per se, certainly not the workaday metallic ones. The only reference here is to the unusually complex manlike devices that seem flesh and blood and that we might call androids. Actually, they are so complex that perhaps they might explode at that; I am not an expert in the field. The robotics industry will recover.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Nobody in the government,\rdblquote  said Edwards stubbornly, \ldblquote seems to care whether we reach the bottom of the matter or not.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ve already explained that there have been no consequences but good ones. Why stir the mud at the bottom, when the water above is clear?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And the use of the disintegrator?\rdblquote  \par
\tab For a moment, Janek\rquote s hand, which had been slowly turning the container of soya sticks on his desk, held still, then it returned to its rhythmic movement. He said lightly, \ldblquote What\rquote s that?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Edwards said intently, \ldblquote Mr. Janek, I think you know what I mean. As part of the Service--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote To which you no longer belong, of course:\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Nevertheless, as part of the Service, I could not help but hear things that were not always, I suppose, for my ears. I had heard of a new weapon, and I saw something happen at the Tercentenary which would require one. The object everyone thought was the President disappeared into a cloud of very fine dust. It was as though every atom within the object had had its bonds to other atoms loosed. The object had become a cloud of individual atoms, which began to combine again of course, but which dispersed too quickly to do more than appear a momentary glitter of dust.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Very science-fictionish.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I certainly don\rquote t understand the science behind it, Mr. Janek, but I do see that it would take considerable energy to accomplish such bond breaking. This energy would have to be withdrawn from the environment. Those people who were standing near the device at the time, and whom I could locate--and who would agree to talk--were unanimous in reporting a wave of coldness washing over them.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Janek put the soya-stick container to one side with a small click of transite against cellulite. He said, \ldblquote Suppose just for argument that there is such a thing as a disintegrator.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You need not argue. There is.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I won\rquote t argue. I know of no such thing myself, but in my office, I am not likely to know of anything so security-bound as new weaponry. But if a disintegrator exists and is as secret as all that, it must be an American monopoly, unknown to the rest of the Federation. It would then not be something either you or I should talk about. It could be a more dangerous war weapon than the nuclear bombs, precisely because--if what you say is so--it produces nothing more than disintegration at the point of impact and cold in the immediate neighborhood. No blast, no fire, no deadly radiation. Without these distressing side effects, there would be no deterrent to its use, yet for all we know it might be made large enough to destroy the planet itself.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I go along with all of that,\rdblquote  said Edwards. \par
\tab\ldblquote Then you see that if there is no disintegrator, it is foolish to talk about one; and if there \i is \i0 a disintegrator, then it is criminal to talk about one.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I haven\rquote t discussed it, except to you, just now, because I\rquote m trying to persuade you of the seriousness of the situation. If one had been used, for instance, ought not the government be interested in deciding how it came to be used--if another unit of the Federation might be in possession?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Janek shook his head. \ldblquote I think that we can rely on appropriate organs of this government to take such a thing into consideration. You had better not concern yourself with the matter.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Edwards said, in barely controlled impatience, \ldblquote Can you assure me that the United States is the only government that has such a weapon at its disposal?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I can\rquote t tell you, since I know nothing about such a weapon, and should not know. You should not have spoken of it to me. Even if no such weapon exists, the \i rumor \i0 of its existence could be damaging.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But since I have told you and the damage is done, please hear me out. Let me have the chance of convincing you that \i you, \i0 and no one else, hold the key to a fearful situation that perhaps I alone see.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You alone see? I alone hold the key?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Does that sound paranoid? Let me explain and then judge for yourself.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I will give you a little more time, sir, but what I have said stands. You must abandon this--this hobby of yours--this investigation. It is terribly dangerous.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It is its abandonment that would be dangerous. Don\rquote t you see that if the disintegrator exists and if the United States has the monopoly of it, then it follows that the number of people who could have access to one would be sharply limited. As an ex-member of the Service, I have some practical knowledge of this and I tell you that the only person in the world who could manage to abstract a disintegrator from our top-secret arsenals would be the President....Only the President of the United States, Mr. Janek, could have arranged that assassination attempt.\rdblquote  \par
\tab They stared at each other for a moment and then Janek touched a contact at his desk. \par
\tab He said, \ldblquote Added precaution. No one can overhear us now by any means. Mr. Edwards, do you realize the danger of that statement? To yourself? You must not overestimate the power of the Global Charter. A government has the right to take reasonable measures for the protection of its stability.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Edwards said, \ldblquote I\rquote m approaching you, Mr. Janek, as someone I presume to be a loyal American citizen. I come to you with news of a terrible crime that affects all Americans and the entire Federation. A crime that has produced a situation that perhaps only you can right. Why do you respond with threats?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Janek said, \ldblquote That\rquote s the second time you have tried to make it appear that I am a potential savior of the world. I can\rquote t conceive of myself in that role. You understand, I hope, that I have no unusual powers.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You are the secretary to the President.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That does \i not \i0 mean I have special access to him or am in some intimately confidential relationship to him. There are times, Mr. Edwards, when I suspect others consider me to be nothing more than a flunky, and there are even times when I find myself in danger of agreeing with them.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Nevertheless, you see him frequently, you see him informally, you see him--\rdblquote  \par
\tab Janek said impatiently, \ldblquote I see enough of him to be able to assure you that the President would not order the destruction of that mechanical device on Tercentenary day.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Is it in your opinion impossible, then?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I did not say that. I said he would not. After all, why should he? Why should the President want to destroy a look-alike android that had been a valuable adjunct to him for over three years of his Presidency? And if for some reason he wanted it done, why on Earth should he do it in so incredibly public a way--at the Tercentenary, no less--thus advertising its existence, risking public revulsion at the thought of shaking hands with a mechanical device, to say nothing of the diplomatic repercussions of having had representatives of other parts of the Federation treat with one? He might, instead, simply have ordered it disassembled in private. No one but a few highly placed members of the Administration would have known.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote There have not, however, been any undesirable consequences for the President as a result of the Incident, have there?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote He has had to cut down on ceremony. He is no longer as accessible as he once was.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote As the robot once was.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  said Janek uneasily. \ldblquote Yes, I suppose that\rquote s right.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Edwards said, \ldblquote And, as a matter of fact, the President was re-elected and his popularity has not diminished even though the destruction was public. The argument against public destruction is not as powerful as you make it sound.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But the re-election came about \i despite \i0 the Incident. It was brought about by the President\rquote s quick action in stepping forward and delivering what you will have to admit was one of the great speeches of American history. It was an absolutely amazing performance; you will have to admit that.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It was a beautifully staged drama. The President, one might think, would have counted on that.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Janek sat back in his chair. \ldblquote If I understand you, Edwards, you are suggesting an involuted storybook plot. Are you trying to say that the President had the device destroyed, just as it was--in the middle of a crowd, at precisely the time of the Tercentenary celebration, with the world watching--so that he could win the admiration of all by his quick action? Are you suggesting that he arranged it all so that he could establish himself as a man of unexpected vigor and strength under extremely dramatic circumstances and thus turn a losing campaign into a winning one? ...Mr. Edwards, you\rquote ve been reading fairy tales.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Edwards said, \ldblquote If I were trying to claim all this, it would indeed be a fairy tale, but I am not. I never suggested that the President ordered the killing of the robot. I merely asked if you thought it were possible and you have stated quite strongly that it wasn\rquote t. I\rquote m glad you did, because I agree with you.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Then what is all this? I\rquote m beginning to think you\rquote re wasting my time.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Another moment, please. Have you ever asked yourself why the job couldn\rquote t have been done with a laser beam, with a field deactivator--with a sledgehammer, for God\rquote s sake? Why should anyone go to the incredible trouble of getting a weapon guarded by the strongest possible government security to do a job that didn\rquote t require such a weapon? Aside from the difficulty of getting it, why risk revealing the existence of a disintegrator to the rest of the world?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote This whole business of a disintegrator is just a theory of yours.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The robot disappeared completely before my eyes. I was watching. I rely on no secondhand evidence for that. It doesn\rquote t matter what you call the weapon; whatever name you give it, it had the effect of taking the robot apart atom by atom and scattering all those atoms irretrievably. Why should this be done? It was tremendous overkill.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t know what was in the mind of the perpetrator.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No? Yet it seems to me that there is only one logical reason for a complete powdering when something much simpler would have carried through the destruction. The powdering left no trace behind of the destroyed object. It left nothing to indicate what it had been, whether robot or anything else.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Janek said, \ldblquote But there is no question of what it was.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Isn\rquote t there? I said only the President could have arranged for a disintegrator to be obtained and used. But, considering the existence of a look-alike robot, which President did the arranging?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Janek said harshly, \ldblquote I don\rquote t think we can carry on this conversation. You are mad.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Edwards said, \ldblquote Think it through. For God\rquote s sake, think it through. The President did not destroy the robot. Your arguments there are convincing. What happened was that the robot destroyed the President. President Winkler was killed in the crowd on July 4, 2076. A robot resembling President Winkler then gave the Tercentenary speech, ran for re-election, was re-elected, and still serves as President of the United States!\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Madness!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ve come to you, to \i you \i0 because \i you \i0 can prove this--and correct it, too.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It is simply not so. The President is--the President.\rdblquote  Janek made as though to rise and conclude the interview. \par
\tab\ldblquote You yourself say he\rquote s changed,\rdblquote  said Edwards quickly and urgently. \ldblquote The Tercentenary speech was beyond the powers of the old Winkler. Haven\rquote t you been yourself amazed at the accomplishments of the last two years? Truthfully--could the Winkler of the first term have done all this?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, he could have, because the President of the second term is the President of the first term.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Do you deny he\rquote s changed? I put it to you. \i You \i0 decide and I\rquote ll abide by your decision.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote He\rquote s risen to meet the challenge, that is all. It\rquote s happened before this in American history.\rdblquote  But Janek sank back into his seat. He looked uneasy. \par
\tab\ldblquote He doesn\rquote t drink,\rdblquote  said Edwards. \par
\tab\ldblquote He never did--very much.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote He no longer womanizes. Do you deny he did so in the past?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote A President is a man. For the last two years, however, he\rquote s felt dedicated to the matter of the Federation.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s a change for the better, I admit,\rdblquote  said Edwards, \ldblquote but it\rquote s a change. Of course, if he \i had \i0 a woman, the masquerade could not be carried on, could it?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Janek said, \ldblquote Too bad he doesn\rquote t have a wife.\rdblquote  He pronounced the archaic word a little self-consciously. \ldblquote The whole matter wouldn\rquote t arise if he did.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The fact that he doesn\rquote t made the plot more practical. Yet he has fathered two children. I don\rquote t believe they have been in the White House, either one of them, since the Tercentenary.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Why should they be? They are grown, with lives of their own.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Are they invited? Is the President interested in seeing them? You\rquote re his private secretary. You would know. Are they?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Janek said, \ldblquote You\rquote re wasting time. A robot can\rquote t kill a human being. You know that that is the First Law of Robotics.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I know it. But no one is saying that the robot-Winkler killed the human-Winkler directly. When the human-Winkler was in the crowd, the robot-Winkler was on the stand and I doubt that a disintegrator could be aimed from that distance without doing more widespread damage. Maybe it could, but more likely the robot-Winkler had an accomplice--a hit man, if that is the correct Twentieth-Century jargon.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Janek frowned. His plump face puckered and looked pained. He said, \ldblquote You know, madness must be catching. I\rquote m actually beginning to consider the insane notion you\rquote ve brought here. Fortunately, it doesn\rquote t hold water. After all, why would an assassination of the human-Winkler be arranged in public? All the arguments against destroying the robot in public hold against the killing of a human President in public. Don\rquote t you see that ruins the whole theory?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It does not--\rdblquote  began Edwards. \ldblquote It \i does. \i0 No one except for a few officials knew that the mechanical device existed at all. If President Winkler were killed privately and his body disposed of, the robot could easily take over without suspicion--without having roused yours, for instance.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote There would always be a few officials who would know, Mr. Janek. The assassinations would have to broaden.\rdblquote  Edwards leaned forward earnestly. \ldblquote See here, ordinarily there couldn\rquote t have been any danger of confusing the human being and the machine. I imagine the robot wasn\rquote t in constant use, but was pulled out only for specific purposes, and there would always be key individuals, perhaps quite a number of them, who would know where the President was and what he was doing. If that were so, the assassination would have to be carried out at a time when those officials actually thought the President was really the robot.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t follow you.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote See here. One of the robot\rquote s tasks was to shake hands with the crowd; press the flesh. When this was taking place, the officials in the know would be perfectly aware that the hand shaker was, in truth, the robot.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Exactly. You\rquote re making sense now. It \i was \i0 the robot.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Except that it was the Tercentenary, and except that President Winkler could not resist. I suppose it would be more than human to expect a President--particularly an empty crowd pleaser and applause hunter like Winkler--to give up the adulation of the crowd on this day of all days, and let it go to a machine. And perhaps the robot carefully nurtured this impulse so that on this one Tercentenary day, the President would have ordered the robot to remain behind the podium, while he himself went out to shake hands and to be cheered.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Secretly?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Of course secretly. If the President had told anyone in the Service, or any of his aides, or you, would he have been allowed to do it? The official attitude concerning the possibility of assassination has been practically a disease since the events of the late Twentieth Century. So with the encouragement of an obviously clever robot--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You assume the robot to be clever because you assume he is now serving as President. That is circular reasoning. If he is not President, there is no reason to think he is clever, or that he were capable of working out this plot. Besides, what motive could possibly drive a robot to plot an assassination? Even if it didn\rquote t kill the President directly, the taking of a human life indirectly is also forbidden by the First Law, which states: \lquote A robot may not injure a human being or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm.\rquote\rdblquote  \par
\tab Edwards said, \ldblquote The First Law is not absolute. What if harming a human being saves the lives of two others, or three others, or even three billion others? The robot may have thought that saving the Federation took precedence over the saving of one life. It was no ordinary robot, after all. It was designed to duplicate the properties of the President closely enough to deceive anyone. Suppose it had the understanding of President Winkler, without his weaknesses, and suppose it knew that it could save the Federation where the President could not.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You can reason so, but how do you know a mechanical device would?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It is the only way to explain what happened.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I think it is a paranoid fantasy.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Edwards said, \ldblquote Then tell me why the object that was destroyed was powdered into atoms. What else would make sense than to suppose that that was the only way to hide the fact that it was a human being and not a robot that was destroyed? Give me an alternate explanation.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Janek reddened. \ldblquote I won\rquote t accept it.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But you can prove the whole matter--or disprove it. It\rquote s why I have come to you--to \i you.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\i0\ldblquote How can I prove it? Or disprove it either?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No one sees the President at unguarded moments as you do. It is with you--in default of family--that he is most informal. Study him.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I have. I tell you he isn\rquote t--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You haven\rquote t. You suspected nothing wrong--Little signs meant nothing to you. Study him now, being aware that he \i might \i0 be a robot, and you will see.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Janek said sardonically, \ldblquote I can knock him down and probe for metal with an ultrasonic detector. Even an android has a platinum-iridium brain.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No drastic action will be necessary. Just observe him and you will see that he is so radically not the man he was that he cannot be a man.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Janek looked at the clock-calendar on the wall. He said, \ldblquote We have been here over an hour.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m sorry to have taken up so much of your time, but you see the importance of all this, I hope.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Importance?\rdblquote  said Janek. Then he looked up and what had seemed a despondent air turned suddenly into something of hope. \ldblquote But is it, in fact, important? Really, I mean?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote How can it not be important? To have a robot as President of the United States? That\rquote s not important?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No, that\rquote s not what I mean. Forget what President Winkler might be. Just consider this. Someone serving as President of the United States has saved the Federation; he has held it together and, at the present moment, he runs the Council in the interests of peace and of constructive compromise. You\rquote ll admit all that?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Edwards said, \ldblquote Of course, I admit all that. But what of the precedent established? A robot in the White House for a very good reason now may lead to a robot in the White House twenty years from now for a very bad reason, and then to robots in the White House for no reason at all but only as a matter of course. Don\rquote t you see the importance of muffling a possible trumpet call for the end of humanity at the time of its first uncertain note?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Janek shrugged. \ldblquote Suppose I find out he\rquote s a robot? Do we broadcast it to all the world? Do you know how that will affect the Federation? Do you know what it will do to the world\rquote s financial structure? Do you know--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I do know. That is why I have come to you privately, instead of trying to make it public. It is up to you to check out the matter and come to a definite conclusion. It is up to you, next, having found the supposed President to be a robot, which I am certain you will do, to persuade him to resign.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And by your version of his reaction to the First Law, he will then have me killed since I will be threatening his expert handling of the greatest global crisis of the Twenty-first Century.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Edwards shook his head. \ldblquote The robot acted in secret before, and no one tried to counter the arguments he used with himself. You will be able to reinforce a stricter interpretation of the First Law with your arguments. If necessary, we can get the aid of some official from U. S. Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation who constructed the robot in the first place. Once he resigns, the Vice-President will succeed. If the robot-Winkler has put the old world on the right track, good; it can now be kept on the right track by the Vice-President, who is a decent and honorable woman. But we can\rquote t have a robot ruler, and we mustn\rquote t ever again. \par
\tab\ldblquote What if the President is human?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ll leave that to you. You will know.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Janek said, \ldblquote I am not that confident of myself. What if I can\rquote t decide? If I can\rquote t bring myself to? If I don\rquote t dare to? What are your plans?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Edwards looked tired. \ldblquote I don\rquote t know. I may have to go to U. S. Robots. But I don\rquote t think it will come to that. I\rquote m quite confident that now that I\rquote ve laid the problem in your lap, you won\rquote t rest till it\rquote s settled. Do \i you \i0 want to be ruled by a robot?\rdblquote  \par
\tab He stood up, and Janek let him go. They did not shake hands. \par
\tab Janek sat there in the gathering twilight in deep shock. A robot! \par
\tab The man had walked in and had argued, in perfectly rational manner, that the President of the United States was a robot. \par
\tab It should have been easy to fight that off. Yet though Janek had tried every argument he could think of, they had all been useless, and the man had not been shaken in the least. \par
\tab A robot as President! Edwards had been \i certain \i0 of it, and he would \i stay \i0 certain of it. And if Janek insisted that the President was human, Edwards would go to U. S. Robots. He wouldn\rquote t rest. \par
\tab Janek frowned as he thought of the twenty-seven months since the Tercentenary and of how well all had gone in the face of the probabilities. And now? \par
\tab He remained lost in somber thought. \par
\tab He still had the disintegrator but surely it would not be necessary to use it on a human being, the nature of whose body was not in question. A silent laser stroke in some lonely spot would do. \par
\tab It had been hard to maneuver the President into the earlier job, but in this present case, it wouldn\rquote t even have to know. \par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\b\i\f2\fs28\page Powell and Donovan \par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\tab\i0 The second robot story I wrote, \ldblquote Reason\rdblquote  (included in this section), dealt with the two field-testers, Gregory Powell and Michael Donovan. They were modeled on certain stories John Campbell wrote, which I admired extravagantly, about a pair of interplanetary explorers, Penton and Blake. If Campbell ever noted the similarity, he said nothing about it to me. \par
\par
\tab By the way, I must warn you that the first story in this section, \ldblquote First Law,\rdblquote  was written as a spoof and is not meant to be taken seriously. \par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page First Law \par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\tab Mike Donovan looked at his empty beer mug, felt bored, and decided he had listened long enough. He said, loudly, \ldblquote If we\rquote re going to talk about unusual robots, I once knew one that disobeyed the First Law.\rdblquote  \par
\tab And since that was completely impossible, everyone stopped talking and turned to look at Donovan. \par
\tab Donovan regretted his big mouth at once and changed the subject. \ldblquote I heard a good one yesterday,\rdblquote  he said, conversationally, \ldblquote about--\rdblquote  \par
\tab MacFarlane in the chair next to Donovan\rquote s said, \ldblquote You mean you knew a robot that harmed a human being?\rdblquote  That was what disobedience to First Law meant, of course. \par
\tab\ldblquote In a way,\rdblquote  said Donovan. \ldblquote I say I heard one about--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Tell us about it,\rdblquote  ordered MacFarlane. Some of the others banged their beer mugs on the table. \par
\tab Donovan made the best of it. \ldblquote It happened on Titan about ten years ago,\rdblquote  he said, thinking rapidly. \ldblquote Yes, it was in twenty-five. We had just recently received a shipment of three new-model robots, specially designed for Titan. They were the first of the MA models. We called them Emma One, Two and Three.\rdblquote  He snapped his fingers for another beer and stared earnestly after the waiter. Let\rquote s see, what came next? \par
\tab MacFarlane said, \ldblquote I\rquote ve been in robotics half my life, Mike. I never heard of an MA serial order.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s because they took the MA\rquote s off the assembly lines immediately after--after what I\rquote m going to tell you. Don\rquote t you remember?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No.\rdblquote  Donovan continued hastily. \ldblquote We put the robots to work at once. You see, until then, the Base had been entirely useless during the stormy season, which lasts eighty percent of Titan\rquote s revolution about Saturn. During the terrific snows, you couldn\rquote t find the Base if it were only a hundred yards away. Compasses aren\rquote t any use, because Titan hasn\rquote t any magnetic field. \par
\tab\ldblquote The virtue of these MA robots, however, was that they were equipped with vibro-detectors of a new design so that they could make a beeline for the Base through anything, and that meant mining could become a through-the-revolution affair. And don\rquote t say a word, Mac. The vibro-detectors were taken off the market also, and that\rquote s why you haven\rquote t heard of them.\rdblquote  Donovan coughed. \ldblquote Military secret, you understand.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He went on. \ldblquote The robots worked fine during the first stormy season, then at the start of the calm season, Emma Two began acting up. She kept wandering off into corners and under bales and had to be coaxed out. Finally she wandered off Base altogether and didn\rquote t come back. We decided there had been a flaw in her manufacture and got along with the other two. Still, it meant we were shorthanded, or short-roboted anyway, so when toward the end of the calm season, someone had to go to Kornsk, I volunteered to chance it without a robot. It seemed safe enough; the storms weren\rquote t due for two days and I\rquote d be back in twenty hours at the outside. \par
\tab\ldblquote I was on the way back--a good ten miles from Base--when the wind started blowing and the air thickening. I landed my air car immediately before the wind could smash it, pointed myself toward the Base and started running. I could run the distance in the low gravity all right, but could I run a straight line? That was the question. My air supply was ample and my suit heat coils were satisfactory, but ten miles in a Titanian storm is infinity. \par
\tab\ldblquote Then, when the snow streams changed everything to a dark, gooey twilight, with even Saturn dimmed out and the sun only a pale pimple, I stopped short and leaned against the wind. There was a little dark object right ahead of me. I could barely make it out but I knew what it was. It was a storm pup; the only living thing that could stand a Titanian storm, and the most vicious living thing anywhere. I knew my space suit wouldn\rquote t protect me, once it made for me, and in the bad light, I had to wait for a point-blank aim or I didn\rquote t dare shoot. One miss and he would be at me. \par
\tab\ldblquote I backed away slowly and the shadow followed. It closed in and I was raising my blaster, with a prayer, when a bigger shadow loomed over me suddenly, and I yodeled with relief. It was Emma Two, the missing MA robot. I never stopped to wonder what had happened to it or worry why it had. I just howled, \lquote Emma, baby, get that storm pup; and then get me back to Base.\rquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It just looked at me as if it hadn\rquote t heard and called out, \lquote Master, don\rquote t shoot. Don\rquote t shoot.\rquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It made for that storm pup at a dead run. \par
\ldblquote  \lquote Get that damned pup, Emma,\rquote  I shouted. It got the pup, all right. It scooped it right up and \i kept \i0 on \i going. \i0 I yelled myself hoarse but it never came back. It left me to die in the storm.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab Donovan paused dramatically, \ldblquote Of course, you know the First Law: A robot may not injure a human being, or through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm! Well, Emma Two just ran off with that storm pup and left me to die. It broke First Law. \par
\tab\ldblquote Luckily, I pulled through safely. Half an hour later, the storm died down. It had been a premature gust, and a temporary one. That happens sometimes. I hot-footed it for Base and the storms really broke next day. Emma Two returned two hours after I did, and, of course, the mystery was then explained and the MA models were taken off the market immediately.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And just what,\rdblquote  demanded MacFarlane, \ldblquote was the explanation?\rdblquote  Donovan regarded him seriously. \ldblquote It\rquote s true I was a human being in danger of death, Mac, but to that robot there was something else that came first, even before me, before the First Law. Don\rquote t forget these robots were of the MA series and this particular MA robot had been searching out private nooks for some time before disappearing. It was as though it expected something special--and private--to happen to it. Apparently, something special had.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Donovan\rquote s eyes turned upward reverently and his voice trembled. \ldblquote That storm pup was no storm pup. We named it Emma Junior when Emma Two brought it back. Emma Two \i had \i0 to protect it from my gun. What is even First Law compared with the holy ties of mother love?\rdblquote  \par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Runaround\par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\scaps It was one of Gregory Powell\rquote s favorite\scaps0  platitudes that nothing was to be gained from excitement, so when Mike Donovan came leaping down the stairs toward him, red hair matted with perspiration, Powell frowned.\par
\tab\ldblquote What\rquote s wrong?\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote Break a fingernail?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yaaaah,\rdblquote  snarled Donovan, feverishly. \ldblquote What have you been doing in the sublevels all day?\rdblquote  He took a deep breath and blurted out, \ldblquote Speedy never returned.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell\rquote s eyes widened momentarily and he stopped on the stairs; then he recovered and resumed his upward steps. He didn\rquote t speak until he reached the head of the flight, and then:\par
\tab\ldblquote You sent him after the selenium?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And how long has he been out?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Five hours now.\rdblquote\par
\tab Silence! This was a devil of a situation. Here they were, on Mercury exactly twelve hours -- and already up to the eyebrows in the worst sort of trouble. Mercury had long been the jinx world of the System, but this was drawing it rather strong -- even for a jinx.\par
\tab Powell said, \ldblquote Start at the beginning, and let\rquote s get this straight.\rdblquote\par
\tab They were in the radio room now -- with its already subtly antiquated equipment, untouched for the ten years previous to their arrival. Even ten years, technologically speaking, meant so much. Compare Speedy with the type of robot they must have had back in 2005. But then, advances in robotics these days were tremendous. Powell touched a still gleaming metal surface gingerly. The air of disuse that touched everything about the room -- and the entire Station -- was infinitely depressing.\par
\tab Donovan must have felt it. He began: \ldblquote I tried to locate him by radio, but it was no go. Radio isn\rquote t any good on the Mercury Sunside -- not past two miles, anyway. That\rquote s one of the reasons the First Expedition failed. And we can\rquote t put up the ultrawave equipment for weeks yet -\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Skip all that. What did you get?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I located the unorganized body signal in the short wave. It was no good for anything except his position. I kept track of him that way for two hours and plotted the results on the map.\rdblquote\par
\tab There was a yellowed square of parchment in his hip pocket -- a relic of the unsuccessful First Expedition -- and he slapped it down on the desk with vicious force, spreading it flat with the palm of his hand. Powell, hands clasped across his chest, watched it at long range.\par
\tab Donovan\rquote s pencil pointed nervously. \ldblquote The red cross is the selenium pool. You marked it yourself.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Which one is it?\rdblquote  interrupted Powell. \ldblquote There were three that MacDougal located for us before he left.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I sent Speedy to the nearest, naturally; seventeen miles away. But what difference does that make?\rdblquote  There was tension in his voice. \ldblquote There are the penciled dots that mark Speedy\rquote s position.\rdblquote\par
\tab And for the first time Powell\rquote s artificial aplomb was shaken and his hands shot forward for the map.\par
\tab\ldblquote Are you serious? This is impossible.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote There it is,\rdblquote  growled Donovan.\par
\tab The little dots that marked the position formed a rough circle about the red cross of the selenium pool. And Powell\rquote s fingers went to his brown mustache, the unfailing signal of anxiety.\par
\tab Donovan added: \ldblquote In the two hours I checked on him, he circled that damned pool four times. It seems likely to me that he\rquote ll keep that up forever. Do you realize the position we\rquote re in?\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell looked up shortly, and said nothing. Oh, yes, he realized the position they were in. It worked itself out as simply as a syllogism. The photocell banks that alone stood between the full power of Mercury\rquote s monstrous sun and themselves were shot to hell. \par
\tab The only thing that could save them was selenium. The only thing that could get the selenium was Speedy. If Speedy didn\rquote t come back, no selenium. No selenium, no photocell banks. No photo-banks -- well, death by slow broiling is one of the more unpleasant ways of being done in.\par
\tab Donovan rubbed his red mop of hair savagely and expressed himself with bitterness. \ldblquote We\rquote ll be the laughingstock of the System, Greg. How can everything have gone so wrong so soon? The great team of Powell and Donovan is sent out to Mercury to report on the advisability of reopening the Sunside Mining Station with modern techniques and robots and we ruin everything the first day. A purely routine job, too. We\rquote ll never live it down.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We won\rquote t have to, perhaps,\rdblquote  replied Powell, quietly. \ldblquote If we don\rquote t do something quickly, living anything down -- or even just plain living -- will be out of the question.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Don\rquote t be stupid! If you feel funny about it, Greg, I don\rquote t. It was criminal, sending us out here with only one robot. And it was your bright idea that we could handle the photocell banks ourselves.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Now you\rquote re being unfair. It was a mutual decision and you know it. All we needed was a kilogram of selenium, a Stillhead Dielectrode Plate and about three hours\rquote  time and there are pools of pure selenium all over Sunside. MacDougal\rquote s spectroreflector spotted three for us in five minutes, didn\rquote t it? What the devil! We couldn\rquote t have waited for next conjunction.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, what are we going to do? Powell, you\rquote ve got an idea. I know you have, or you wouldn\rquote t be so calm. You\rquote re no more a hero than I am. Go on, spill it!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We can\rquote t go after Speedy ourselves, Mike -- not on the Sunside. Even the new insosuits aren\rquote t good for more than twenty minutes in direct sunlight. But you know the old saying, \lquote Set a robot to catch a robot\rquote  Look, Mike, maybe things aren\rquote t so bad. We\rquote ve got six robots down in the sublevels, that we may be able to use, if they work. If they work.\rdblquote\par
\tab There was a glint of sudden hope in Donovan\rquote s eyes. \ldblquote You mean six robots from the First Expedition. Are you sure? They may be subrobotic machines. Ten years is a long time as far as robot-types are concerned, you know.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, they\rquote re robots. I\rquote ve spent all day with them and I know. They\rquote ve got positronic brains: primitive, of course.\rdblquote  He placed the map in his pocket. \ldblquote Let\rquote s go down.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab The robots were on the lowest sublevel -- all six of them surrounded by musty packing cases of uncertain content. They were large, extremely so, and even though they were in a sitting position on the floor, legs straddled out before them, their heads were a good seven feet in the air.\par
\tab Donovan whistled. \ldblquote Look at the size of them, will you? The chests must be ten feet around.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s because they\rquote re supplied with the old McGuffy gears. I\rquote ve been over the insides -- crummiest set you\rquote ve ever seen.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Have you powered them yet?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No. There wasn\rquote t any reason to. I don\rquote t think there\rquote s anything wrong with them. Even the diaphragm is in reasonable order. They might talk.\rdblquote\par
\tab He had unscrewed the chest plate of the nearest as he spoke, inserted the two-inch sphere that contained the tiny spark of atomic energy that was a robot\rquote s life. There was difficulty in fitting it, but he managed, and then screwed the plate back on again in laborious fashion. The radio controls of more modern models had not been heard of ten years earlier. And then to the other five.\par
\tab Donovan said uneasily, \ldblquote They haven\rquote t moved.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No orders to do so,\rdblquote  replied Powell, succinctly. He went back to the first in the line and struck him on the chest. \ldblquote You! Do you hear me?\rdblquote\par
\tab The monster\rquote s head bent slowly and the eyes fixed themselves on Powell. Then, in a harsh, squawking voice -- like that of a medieval phonograph, he grated, \ldblquote Yes, Master!\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell grinned humorlessly at Donovan. \ldblquote Did you get that? Those were the days of the first talking robots when it looked as if the use of robots on Earth would be banned. The makers were fighting that and they built good, healthy slave complexes into the damned machines.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It didn\rquote t help them,\rdblquote  muttered Donovan.\par
\tab\ldblquote No, it didn\rquote t, but they sure tried.\rdblquote  He turned once more to the robot. \ldblquote Get up!\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot towered upward slowly and Donovan\rquote s head craned and his puckered lips whistled.\par
\tab Powell said: \ldblquote Can you go out upon the surface? In the light?\rdblquote\par
\tab There was consideration while the robot\rquote s slow brain worked. Then, \ldblquote Yes, Master.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Good. Do you know what a mile is?\rdblquote\par
\tab Another consideration, and another slow answer. \ldblquote Yes, Master.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We will take you up to the surface then, and indicate a direction. You will go about seventeen miles, and somewhere in that general region you will meet another robot, smaller than yourself. You understand so far?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, Master.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You will find this robot and order him to return. If he does not wish to, you are to bring him back by force.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan clutched at Powell\rquote s sleeve. \ldblquote Why not send him for the selenium direct?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Because I want Speedy back, nitwit. I want to find out what\rquote s wrong with him.\rdblquote  And to the robot, \ldblquote All right, you, follow me.\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot remained motionless and his voice rumbled: \ldblquote Pardon, Master, but I cannot. You must mount first.\rdblquote  His clumsy arms had come together with a thwack, blunt fingers interlacing.\par
\tab Powell stared and then pinched at his mustache. \ldblquote Uh... oh!\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan\rquote s eyes bulged. \ldblquote We\rquote ve got to ride him? Like a horse?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I guess that\rquote s the idea. I don\rquote t know why, though. I can\rquote t see -- Yes, I do. I told you they were playing up robot-safety in those days. Evidently, they were going to sell the notion of safety by not allowing them to move about, without a mahout on their shoulders all the time. What do we do now?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s what I\rquote ve been thinking,\rdblquote  muttered Donovan. \ldblquote We can\rquote t go out on the surface, with a robot or without. Oh, for the love of Pete\rdblquote  -- and he snapped his fingers twice. He grew excited. \ldblquote Give me that map you\rquote ve got. I haven\rquote t studied it for two hours for nothing. This is a Mining Station. What\rquote s wrong with using the tunnels?\rdblquote\par
\tab The Mining Station was a black circle on the map, and the light dotted lines that were tunnels stretched out about it in spider web fashion.\par
\tab Donovan studied the list of symbols at the bottom of the map. \ldblquote Look,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote the small black dots are openings to the surface, and here\rquote s one maybe three miles away from the selenium pool. There\rquote s a number here -- you\rquote d think they\rquote d write larger -- 13a. If the robots know their way around here-\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell shot the question and received the dull \ldblquote Yes, Master,\rdblquote  in reply. \ldblquote Get your insosuit,\rdblquote  he said with satisfaction.\par
\tab It was the first time either had worn the insosuits -- which marked one time more than either had expected to upon their arrival the day before -- and they tested their limb movements uncomfortably.\par
\tab The insosuit was far bulkier and far uglier than the regulation spacesuit; but withal considerably lighter, due to the fact that they were entirely nonmetallic in composition. Composed of heat-resistant plastic and chemically treated cork layers, and equipped with a desiccating unit to keep the air bone-dry, the insosuits could withstand the full glare of Mercury\rquote s sun for twenty minutes. Five to ten minutes more, as well, without actually killing the occupant.\par
\tab And still the robot\rquote s hands formed the stirrup, nor did he betray the slightest atom of surprise at the grotesque figure into which Powell had been converted.\par
\tab Powell\rquote s radio-harshened voice boomed out: \ldblquote Are you ready to take us to Exit 13a?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, Master.\rdblquote\par
\tab Good, thought Powell; they might lack radio control but at least they were fitted for radio reception. \ldblquote Mount one or the other, Mike,\rdblquote  he said to Donovan.\par
\tab He placed a foot in the improvised stirrup and swung upward. He found the seat comfortable; there was the humped back of the robot, evidently shaped for the purpose, a shallow groove along each shoulder for the thighs and two elongated \ldblquote ears\rdblquote  whose purpose now seemed obvious.\par
\tab Powell seized the ears and twisted the head. His mount turned ponderously. \ldblquote Lead on, Macduff.\rdblquote  But he did not feel at all lighthearted.\par
\tab The gigantic robots moved slowly, with mechanical precision, through the doorway that cleared their heads by a scant foot, so that the two men had to duck hurriedly, along a narrow corridor in which their unhurried footsteps boomed monotonously and into the, air lock.\par
\tab The long, airless tunnel that stretched to a pinpoint before them brought home forcefully to Powell the exact magnitude of the task accomplished by the First Expedition, with their crude robots and their start-from-scratch necessities. They might have been a failure, but their failure was a good deal better than the usual run of the System\rquote s successes.\par
\tab The robots plodded onward with a pace that never varied and with footsteps that never lengthened.\par
\tab Powell said: \ldblquote Notice that these tunnels are blazing with lights and that the temperature is Earth-normal. It\rquote s probably been like this all the ten years that this place has remained empty.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote How\rquote s that?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Cheap energy; cheapest in the System. Sunpower, you know, and on Mercury\rquote s Sunside, sunpower is something. That\rquote s why the Station was built in the sunlight rather than in the shadow of a mountain. It\rquote s really a huge energy converter. The heat is turned into electricity, light, mechanical work and what have you; so that energy is supplied and the Station is cooled in a simultaneous process.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Look,\rdblquote  said Donovan. \ldblquote This is all very educational, but would you mind changing the subject? It so happens that this conversion of energy that you talk about is carried on by the photocell banks mainly -- and that is a tender subject with me at the moment.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell grunted vaguely, and when Donovan broke the resulting silence, it was to change the subject completely. \ldblquote Listen, Greg. What the devil\rquote s wrong with Speedy, anyway? I can\rquote t understand it.\rdblquote\par
\tab It\rquote s not easy to shrug shoulders in an insosuit, but Powell tried it. \ldblquote I don\rquote t know, Mike. You know he\rquote s perfectly adapted to a Mercurian environment. Heat doesn\rquote t mean anything to him and he\rquote s built for the light gravity and the broken ground. He\rquote s foolproof -- or, at least, he should be.\rdblquote\par
\tab Silence fell. This time, silence that lasted.\par
\tab\ldblquote Master,\rdblquote  said the robot, \ldblquote we are here.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Eh?\rdblquote  Powell snapped out of a semidrowse. \ldblquote Well, get us out of here -- out to the surface.\rdblquote\par
\tab They found themselves in a tiny substation, empty, airless, ruined. Donovan had inspected a jagged hole in the upper reaches of one of the walls by the light of his pocket flash.\par
\tab\ldblquote Meteorite, do you suppose?\rdblquote  he had asked.\par
\tab Powell shrugged. \ldblquote To hell with that. It doesn\rquote t matter. Let\rquote s get out.\rdblquote\par
\tab A towering cliff of a black, basaltic rock cut off the sunlight, and the deep night shadow of an airless world surrounded them. Before them, the shadow reached out and ended in knife-edge abruptness into an all-but-unbearable blaze of white light, that glittered from myriad crystals along a rocky ground.\par
\tab\ldblquote Space!\rdblquote  gasped Donovan. \ldblquote It looks like snow.\rdblquote  And it did.\par
\tab Powell\rquote s eyes swept the jagged glitter of Mercury to the horizon and winced at the gorgeous brilliance.\par
\tab\ldblquote This must be an unusual area,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote The general albedo of Mercury is low and most of the soil is gray pumice. Something like the Moon, you know. Beautiful, isn\rquote t it?\rdblquote\par
\tab He was thankful for the light filters in their visiplates. Beautiful or not, a look at the sunlight through straight glass would have blinded them inside of half a minute.\par
\tab Donovan was looking at the spring thermometer on his wrist. \ldblquote Holy smokes, the temperature is eighty centigrade!\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell checked his own and said: \ldblquote Um-m-m. A little high. Atmosphere, you know.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote On Mercury? Are you nuts?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Mercury isn\rquote t really airless,\rdblquote  explained Powell, in absentminded fashion. He was adjusting the binocular attachments to his visiplate, and the bloated fingers of the insosuit were clumsy at it. \ldblquote There is a thin exhalation that clings to its surface -- vapors of the more volatile elements and compounds that are heavy enough for Mercurian gravity to retain. You know: selenium, iodine, mercury, gallium, potassium, bismuth, volatile oxides. The vapors sweep into the shadows and condense, giving up heat. It\rquote s a sort of gigantic still. In fact, if you use your flash, you\rquote ll probably find that the side of the cliff is covered with, say, hoar-sulphur, or maybe quicksilver dew.\par
\tab\ldblquote It doesn\rquote t matter, though. Our suits can stand a measly eighty indefinitely.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell had adjusted the binocular attachments, so that he seemed as eye-stalked as a snail.\par
\tab Donovan watched tensely. \ldblquote See anything?\rdblquote\par
\tab The other did not answer immediately, and when he did, his voice was anxious and thoughtful. \ldblquote There\rquote s a dark spot on the horizon that might be the selenium pool. It\rquote s in the right place. But I don\rquote t see Speedy.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell clambered upward in an instinctive striving for better view, till he was standing in unsteady fashion upon his robot\rquote s shoulders. Legs straddled wide, eyes straining, he said: \ldblquote I think... I think -- Yes, it\rquote s definitely he. He\rquote s coming this way.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan followed the pointing finger. He had no binoculars, but there was a tiny moving dot, black against the blazing brilliance of the crystalline ground.\par
\tab\ldblquote I see him,\rdblquote  he yelled. \ldblquote Let\rquote s get going!\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell had hopped down into a sitting position on the robot again, and his suited hand slapped against the Gargantuan\rquote s barrel chest. \ldblquote Get going!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Giddy-ap,\rdblquote  yelled Donovan, and thumped his heels, spur fashion.\par
\tab The robots started off, the regular thudding of their footsteps silent in the airlessness, for the nonmetallic fabric of the insosuits did not transmit sound. There was only a rhythmic vibration just below the border of actual hearing.\par
\tab\ldblquote Faster,\rdblquote  yelled Donovan. The rhythm did not change.\par
\tab\ldblquote No use,\rdblquote  cried Powell, in reply. \ldblquote These junk heaps are only geared to one speed. Do you think they\rquote re equipped with selective flexors?\rdblquote\par
\tab They had burst through the shadow, and the sunlight came down in a white-hot wash and poured liquidly about them.\par
\tab Donovan ducked involuntarily. \ldblquote Wow! Is it imagination or do I feel heat?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote ll feel more presently,\rdblquote  was the grim reply. \ldblquote Keep your eye on Speedy.\rdblquote\par
\tab Robot SPD 13 was near enough to be seen in detail now. His graceful, streamlined body threw out blazing highlights as he loped with easy speed across the broken ground. His name was derived from his serial initials, of course, but it was apt, nevertheless, for the SPD models were among the fastest robots turned out by the United States Robot & Mechanical Men Corp.\par
\tab\ldblquote Hey, Speedy,\rdblquote  howled Donovan, and waved a frantic hand.\par
\tab\ldblquote Speedy!\rdblquote  shouted Powell. \ldblquote Come here!\rdblquote\par
\tab The distance between the men and the errant robot was being cut down momentarily -- more by the efforts of Speedy than the slow plodding of the fifty-year-old antique mounts of Donovan and Powell.\par
\tab They were close enough now to notice that Speedy\rquote s gait included a peculiar rolling stagger, a noticeable side-to-side lurch -- and then, as Powell waved his hand again and sent maximum juice into his compact headset radio sender, in preparation for another shout, Speedy looked up and saw them.\par
\tab Speedy hopped to a halt and remained standing for a moment with just a tiny, unsteady weave, as though he were swaying in a light wind.\par
\tab Powell yelled: \ldblquote All right, Speedy. Come here, boy.\rdblquote\par
\tab Whereupon Speedy\rquote s robot voice sounded in Powell\rquote s earphones for the first time.\par
\tab It said: \ldblquote Hot dog, let\rquote s play games. You catch me and I catch you; no love can cut our knife in two. For I\rquote m Little Buttercup, sweet Little Buttercup. Whoops!\rdblquote  Turning on his heel, he sped off in the direction from which he had come, with a speed and fury that kicked up gouts of baked dust.\par
\tab And his last words as he receded into the distance were, \ldblquote There grew a little flower \lquote neath a great oak tree,\rdblquote  followed by a curious metallic clicking that might have been a robotic equivalent of a hiccup.\par
\tab Donovan said weakly: \ldblquote Where did he pick up the Gilbert and Sullivan? Say, Greg, he... he\rquote s drunk or something.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote If you hadn\rquote t told me,\rdblquote  was the bitter response, \ldblquote I\rquote d never realize it. Let\rquote s get back to the cliff. I\rquote m roasting.\rdblquote\par
\tab It was Powell who broke the desperate silence. \ldblquote In the first place,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote Speedy isn\rquote t drunk -- not in the human sense -- because he\rquote s a robot, and robots don\rquote t get drunk. However, there\rquote s something wrong with him which is the robotic equivalent of drunkenness\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote To me, he\rquote s drunk,\rdblquote  stated Donovan, emphatically, \ldblquote and all I know is that he thinks we\rquote re playing games. And we\rquote re not. It\rquote s a matter of life and very gruesome death.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote All right. Don\rquote t hurry me. A robot\rquote s only a robot. Once we find out what\rquote s wrong with him, we can fix it and go on.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Once,\rdblquote  said Donovan, sourly.\par
\tab Powell ignored him. \ldblquote Speedy is perfectly adapted to normal Mercurian environment. But this region\rdblquote  -- and his arm swept wide -- \ldblquote is definitely abnormal. There\rquote s our clue. Now where do these crystals come from? They might have formed from a slowly cooling liquid; but where would you get liquid so hot that it would cool in Mercury\rquote s sun?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Volcanic action,\rdblquote  suggested Donovan, instantly, and Powell\rquote s body tensed.\par
\tab\ldblquote Out of the mouths of sucklings,\rdblquote  he said in a small, strange voice and remained very still for five minutes.\par
\tab Then, he said, \ldblquote Listen, Mike, what did you say to Speedy when you sent him after the selenium?\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan was taken aback. \ldblquote Well damn it -- I don\rquote t know. I just told him to get it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, I know, but how? Try to remember the exact words.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I said... uh... I said: \lquote Speedy, we need some selenium. You can get it such-and-such a place. Go get it -- that\rquote s all. What more did you want me to say?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You didn\rquote t put any urgency into the order, did you?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What for? It was pure routine.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell sighed. \ldblquote Well, it can\rquote t be helped now -- but we\rquote re in a fine fix.\rdblquote  He had dismounted from his robot, and was sitting, back against the cliff. Donovan joined him and they linked arms: In the distance the burning sunlight seemed to wait cat-and-mouse for them, and just next them, the two giant robots were invisible but for the dull red of their photoelectric eyes that stared down at them, unblinking, unwavering and unconcerned.\par
\tab Unconcerned! As was all this poisonous Mercury, as large in jinx as it was small in size.\par
\tab Powell\rquote s radio voice was tense in Donovan\rquote s ear: \ldblquote Now, look, let\rquote s start with the three fundamental Rules of Robotics -- the three rules that are built most deeply into a robot\rquote s positronic brain.\rdblquote  In the darkness, his gloved fingers ticked off each point.\par
\tab\ldblquote We have: One, a robot may not injure a human being, or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Right!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Two,\rdblquote  continued Powell, \ldblquote a robot must obey the orders given it by human beings except where such orders would conflict with the First Law.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Right\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And three, a robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Laws.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Right! Now where are we?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Exactly at the explanation. The conflict between the various rules is ironed out by the different positronic potentials in the brain. We\rquote ll say that a robot is walking into danger and knows it. The automatic potential that Rule 3 sets up turns him back. But suppose you order him to walk into that danger. In that case, Rule 2 sets up a counterpotential higher than the previous one and the robot follows orders at the risk of existence.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, I know that. What about it?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Let\rquote s take Speedy\rquote s case. Speedy is one of the latest models, extremely specialized, and as expensive as a battleship. It\rquote s not a thing to be lightly destroyed\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote So?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote So Rule 3 has been strengthened -- that was specifically mentioned, by the way, in the advance notices on the SPD models -- so that his allergy to danger is unusually high. At the same time, when you sent him out after the selenium, you gave him his order casually and without special emphasis, so that the Rule 2 potential set-up was rather weak. Now, hold on; I\rquote m just stating facts.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote All right, go ahead. I think I get it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You see how it works, don\rquote t you? There\rquote s some sort of danger centering at the selenium pool. It increases as he approaches, and at a certain distance from it the Rule 3 potential, unusually high to start with, exactly balances the Rule 2 potential, unusually low to start with.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan rose to his feet in excitement. \ldblquote  And it strikes an equilibrium. I see. Rule 3 drives him back and Rule 2 drives him forward-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote So he follows a circle around the selenium pool, staying on the locus of all points of potential equilibrium. And unless we do something about it, he\rquote ll stay on that circle forever, giving us the good old runaround.\rdblquote  Then, more thoughtfully: \ldblquote And that, by the way, is what makes him drunk. At potential equilibrium, half the positronic paths of his brain are out of kilter. I\rquote m not a robot specialist, but that seems obvious. Probably he\rquote s lost control of just those parts of his voluntary mechanism that a human drunk has. Ve-e-ery pretty.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But what\rquote s the danger? If we knew what he was running from-\rdblquote ?\par
\tab\ldblquote You suggested it. Volcanic action. Somewhere right above the selenium pool is a seepage of gas from the bowels of Mercury. Sulphur dioxide, carbon dioxide -- and carbon monoxide. Lots of it and at this temperature.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan gulped audibly. \ldblquote Carbon monoxide plus iron gives the volatile iron carbonyl.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And a robot,\rdblquote  added Powell, \ldblquote is essentially iron.\rdblquote  Then, grimly: \ldblquote There\rquote s nothing like deduction. We\rquote ve determined everything about our problem but the solution. We can\rquote t get the selenium ourselves. It\rquote s still too far. We can\rquote t send these robot horses, because they can\rquote t go themselves, and they can\rquote t carry us fast enough to keep us from crisping. And we can\rquote t catch Speedy, because the dope thinks we\rquote re playing games, and he can run sixty miles to our four.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote If one of us goes,\rdblquote  began Donovan, tentatively, \ldblquote and comes back cooked, there\rquote ll still be the other.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  came the sarcastic reply, \ldblquote it would be a most tender sacrifice -- except that a person would be in no condition to give orders before he ever reached the pool, and I don\rquote t think the robots would ever turn back to the cliff without orders. Figure it out! We\rquote re two or three miles from the pool -- call it two -- the robot travels at four miles an hour; and we can last twenty minutes in our suits. It isn\rquote t only the heat, remember. Solar radiation out here in the ultraviolet and below is poison.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Um-m-m,\rdblquote  said Donovan, \ldblquote ten minutes short.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote As good as an eternity. And another thing, in order for Rule 3 potential to have stopped Speedy where it did, there must be an appreciable amount of carbon monoxide in the metal-vapor atmosphere -- and there must be an appreciable corrosive action therefore. He\rquote s been out hours now -- and how do we know when a knee joint, for instance, won\rquote t be thrown out of kilter and keel him over. It\rquote s not only a question of thinking -- we\rquote ve got to think fast!\rdblquote\par
\tab Deep, dark, dank, dismal silence!\par
\tab Donovan broke it, voice trembling in an effort to keep itself emotionless. He said: \ldblquote As long as we can\rquote t increase Rule 2 potential by giving further orders, how about working the other way? If we increase the danger, we increase Rule 3 potential and drive him backward.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell\rquote s visiplate had turned toward him in a silent question.\par
\tab\ldblquote You see,\rdblquote  came the cautious explanation, \ldblquote all we need to do to drive him out of his rut is to increase the concentration of carbon monoxide in his vicinity. Well, back at the Station there\rquote s a complete analytical laboratory.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Naturally,\rdblquote  assented Powell. \ldblquote It\rquote s a Mining Station.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote All right. There must be pounds of oxalic acid for calcium precipitations.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Holy space! Mike, you\rquote re a genius.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote So-so,\rdblquote  admitted Donovan, modestly. \ldblquote It\rquote s just a case of remembering that oxalic acid on heating decomposes into carbon dioxide, water, and good old carbon monoxide. College chem, you know.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell was on his feet and had attracted the attention of one of the monster robots by the simple expedient of pounding the machine\rquote s thigh.\par
\tab\ldblquote Hey,\rdblquote  he shouted, \ldblquote can you throw?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Master?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Never mind.\rdblquote  Powell damned the robot\rquote s molasses-slow brain. He scrabbled up a jagged brick-size rock. \ldblquote Take this,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote and hit the patch of bluish crystals just across the crooked fissure. You see it?\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan pulled at his shoulder. \ldblquote Too far, Greg. It\rquote s almost half a mile off.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Quiet,\rdblquote  replied Powell. \ldblquote It\rquote s a case of Mercurian gravity and a steel throwing arm. Watch, will you?\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot\rquote s eyes were measuring the distance with machinely accurate stereoscopy. His arm adjusted itself to the weight of the missile and drew back. In the darkness, the robot\rquote s motions went unseen, but there was a sudden thumping sound as he shifted his weight, and seconds later the rock flew blackly into the sunlight. There was no air resistance to slow it down, nor wind to turn it aside -- and when it hit the ground it threw up crystals precisely in the center of the \ldblquote blue patch.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell yelled happily and shouted, \ldblquote Let\rquote s go back after the oxalic acid, Mike.\rdblquote\par
\tab And as they plunged into the ruined substation on the way back to the tunnels, Donovan said grimly: \ldblquote Speedy\rquote s been hanging about on this side of the selenium pool, ever since we chased after him. Did you see him?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I guess he wants to play games. Well, we\rquote ll play him games!\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab They were back hours later, with three-liter jars of the white chemical and a pair of long faces. The photocell banks were deteriorating more rapidly than had seemed likely. The two steered their robots into the sunlight and toward the waiting Speedy in silence and with grim purpose.\par
\tab Speedy galloped slowly toward them. \ldblquote Here we are again. Whee! I\rquote ve made a little list, the piano organist; all people who eat peppermint and puff it in your face.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We\rquote ll puff something in your face,\rdblquote  muttered Donovan. \ldblquote He\rquote s limping, Greg.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I noticed that,\rdblquote  came the low, worried response. \ldblquote The monoxide\rquote ll get him yet, if we don\rquote t hurry.\rdblquote\par
\tab They were approaching cautiously now, almost sidling, to refrain from setting off the thoroughly irrational robot. Powell was too far off to tell, of course, but even already he could have sworn the crack-brained Speedy was setting himself for a spring.\par
\tab\ldblquote Let her go,\rdblquote  he gasped. \ldblquote Count three! One- two-\rdblquote\par
\tab Two steel arms drew back and snapped forward simultaneously and two glass jars whirled forward in towering parallel arcs, gleaming like diamonds in the impossible sun. And in a pair of soundless puffs, they hit the ground behind Speedy in crashes that sent the oxalic acid flying like dust.\par
\tab In the full heat of Mercury\rquote s sun, Powell knew it was fizzing like soda water.\par
\tab Speedy turned to stare, then backed away from it slowly -- and as slowly gathered speed. In fifteen seconds, he was leaping directly toward the two humans in an unsteady canter.\par
\tab Powell did not get Speedy\rquote s words just then, though he heard something that resembled, \ldblquote Lover\rquote s professions when uttered in Hessians.\rdblquote\par
\tab He turned away. \ldblquote Back to the cliff, Mike. He\rquote s out of the rut and he\rquote ll be taking orders now. I\rquote m getting hot.\rdblquote\par
\tab They jogged toward the shadow at the slow monotonous pace of their mounts, and it was not until they had entered it and felt the sudden coolness settle softly about them that Donovan looked back. \ldblquote Greg!\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell looked and almost shrieked. Speedy was moving slowly now -- so slowly -- and in the wrong direction. He was drifting; drifting back into his rut; and he was picking up speed. He looked dreadfully close, and dreadfully unreachable, in the binoculars.\par
\tab Donovan shouted wildly, \ldblquote After him!\rdblquote  and thumped his robot into its pace, but Powell called him back.\par
\tab\ldblquote You won\rquote t catch him, Mike -- it\rquote s no use.\rdblquote  He fidgeted on his robot\rquote s shoulders and clenched his fist in tight impotence. \ldblquote Why the devil do I see these things five seconds after it\rquote s all over? Mike, we\rquote ve wasted hours.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We need more oxalic acid,\rdblquote  declared Donovan, stolidly. \ldblquote The concentration wasn\rquote t high enough.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Seven tons of it wouldn\rquote t have been enough -- and we haven\rquote t the hours to spare to get it, even if it were, with the monoxide chewing him away. Don\rquote t you see what it is, Mike?\rdblquote\par
\tab And Donovan said flatly, \ldblquote No.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We were only establishing new equilibriums. When we create new monoxide and increase Rule 3 potential, he moves backward till he\rquote s in balance again -- and when the monoxide drifted away, he moved forward, and again there was balance.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell\rquote s voice sounded thoroughly wretched. \ldblquote It\rquote s the same old runaround. We can push at Rule 2 and pull at Rule 3 and we can\rquote t get anywhere -- we can only change the position of balance. We\rquote ve got to get outside both rules.\rdblquote  And then he pushed his robot closer to Donovan\rquote s so that they were sitting face-to-face, dim shadows in the darkness, and he whispered, \ldblquote Mike!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Is it the finish?\rdblquote  -- dully. \ldblquote I suppose we go back to the Station, wait for the banks to fold, shake hands, take cyanide, and go out like gentlemen.\rdblquote  He laughed shortly.\par
\tab\ldblquote Mike,\rdblquote  repeated Powell earnestly, \ldblquote we\rquote ve got to get Speedy.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I know.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Mike,\rdblquote  once more, and Powell hesitated before continuing. \ldblquote There\rquote s always Rule 1. I thought of it -- earlier -- but it\rquote s desperate.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan looked up and his voice livened. \ldblquote We\rquote re desperate.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote All right. According to Rule 1, a robot can\rquote t see a human come to harm because of his own inaction. Two and 3 can\rquote t stand against it. They can\rquote t, Mike.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Even when the robot is half cra- Well, he\rquote s drunk. You know he is.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s the chances you take.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Cut it. What are you going to do?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m going out there now and see what Rule 1 will do. If it won\rquote t break the balance, then what the devil -- it\rquote s either now or three-four days from now.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Hold on, Greg. There are human rules of behavior, too. You don\rquote t go out there just like that. Figure out a lottery, and give me my chance.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote All right. First to get the cube of fourteen goes.\rdblquote  And almost immediately, \ldblquote Twenty-seven forty-four!\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan felt his robot stagger at a sudden push by Powell\rquote s mount and then Powell was off into the sunlight. Donovan opened his mouth to shout, and then clicked it shut. Of course, the damn fool had worked out the cube of fourteen in advance, and on purpose. Just like him.\par
\par
\tab The sun was hotter than ever and Powell felt a maddening itch in the small of his back. Imagination, probably, or perhaps hard radiation beginning to tell even through the insosuit.\par
\tab Speedy was watching him, without a word of Gilbert and Sullivan gibberish as greeting. Thank God for that! But he daren\rquote t get too close.\par
\tab He was three hundred yards away when Speedy began backing, a step at a time, cautiously -- and Powell stopped. He jumped from his robot\rquote s shoulders and landed on the crystalline ground with a light thump and a flying of jagged fragments.\par
\tab He proceeded on foot, the ground gritty and slippery to his steps, the low gravity causing him difficulty. The soles of his feet tickled with warmth. He cast one glance over his shoulder at the blackness of the cliff\rquote s shadow and realized that he had come too far to return -- either by himself or by the help of his antique robot. It was Speedy or nothing now, and the knowledge of that constricted his chest.\par
\tab Far enough! He stopped.\par
\tab\ldblquote Speedy,\rdblquote  he called. \ldblquote Speedy!\rdblquote\par
\tab The sleek, modern robot ahead of him hesitated and halted his backward steps, then resumed them.\par
\tab Powell tried to put a note of pleading into his voice, and found it didn\rquote t take much acting. \ldblquote Speedy, I\rquote ve got to get back to the shadow or the sun\rquote ll get me. It\rquote s life or death, Speedy. I need you.\rdblquote\par
\tab Speedy took one step forward and stopped. He spoke, but at the sound Powell groaned, for it was, \ldblquote When you\rquote re lying awake with a dismal headache and repose is tabooed-\rdblquote  It trailed off there, and Powell took time out for some reason to murmur, \ldblquote Iolanthe.\rdblquote\par
\tab It was roasting hot! He caught a movement out of the corner of his eye, and whirled dizzily; then stared in utter astonishment, for the monstrous robot on which he had ridden was moving -- moving toward him, and without a rider.\par
\tab He was talking: \ldblquote Pardon, Master. I must not move without a Master upon me, but you are in danger.\rdblquote\par
\tab Of course, Rule 1 potential above everything. But he didn\rquote t want that clumsy antique; he wanted Speedy. He walked away and motioned frantically: \ldblquote I order you to stay away. I order you to stop!\rdblquote\par
\tab It was quite useless. You could not beat Rule 1 potential. The robot said stupidly, \ldblquote You are in danger, Master.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell looked about him desperately. He couldn\rquote t see clearly. His brain was in a heated whirl; his breath scorched when he breathed, and the ground all about him was a shimmering haze.\par
\tab He called a last time, desperately: \ldblquote Speedy! I\rquote m dying, damn you! Where are you? Speedy, I need you.\rdblquote\par
\tab He was still stumbling backward in a blind effort to get away from the giant robot he didn\rquote t want, when he felt steel fingers on his arms, and a worried, apologetic voice of metallic timbre in his ears.\par
\tab\ldblquote Holy smokes, boss; what are you doing here? And what am I doing -- I\rquote m so confused --\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Never mind,\rdblquote  murmured Powell, weakly. \ldblquote Get me to the shadow of the cliff -- and hurry!\rdblquote  There was one last feeling of being lifted into the air and a sensation of rapid motion and burning heat, and he passed out.\par
\par
\tab He woke with Donovan bending over him and smiling anxiously. \ldblquote How are you, Greg?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Fine!\rdblquote  came the response, \ldblquote Where\rquote s Speedy?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Right here. I sent him out to one of the other selenium pools -- with orders to get that selenium at all cost this time. He got it back in forty-two minutes and three seconds. I timed him. He still hasn\rquote t finished apologizing for the runaround he gave us. He\rquote s scared to come near you for fear of what you\rquote ll say.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Drag him over,\rdblquote  ordered Powell. \ldblquote It wasn\rquote t his fault.\rdblquote  He held out a hand and gripped Speedy\rquote s metal paw. \ldblquote It\rquote s O.K., Speedy.\rdblquote  Then, to Donovan, \ldblquote You know, Mike, I was just thinking-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  -- he rubbed his face -- the air was so delightfully cool, \ldblquote you know that when we get things set up here and Speedy put through his Field Tests, they\rquote re going to send us to the Space Stations next-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes! At least that\rquote s what old lady Calvin told me just before we left, and I didn\rquote t say anything about it, because I was going to fight the whole idea.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Fight it?\rdblquote  cried Donovan. \ldblquote But -\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I know. It\rquote s all right with me now. Two hundred seventy-three degrees Centigrade below zero. Won\rquote t it be a pleasure?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Space Station,\rdblquote  said Donovan, \ldblquote here I come.\rdblquote\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Reason\par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\scaps Half a year later, the boys had changed\scaps0  their minds. The flame of a giant sun had given way to the soft blackness of space but external variations mean little in the business of checking the workings of experimental robots. Whatever the background, one is face to face with an inscrutable positronic brain, which the slide-rule geniuses say should work thus-and-so.\par
\tab Except that they don\rquote t. Powell and Donovan found that out after they had been on the Station less than two weeks.\par
\tab Gregory Powell spaced his words for emphasis, \ldblquote One week ago, Donovan and I put you together.\rdblquote  His brows furrowed doubtfully and he pulled the end of his brown mustache.\par
\tab It was quiet in the officer\rquote s room on Solar Station #5 -- except for the soft purring of the mighty Beam Director somewhere far below.\par
\tab Robot QT-1 sat immovable. The burnished plates of his body gleamed in the Luxites and the glowing red of the photoelectric cells that were his eyes, were fixed steadily upon the Earthman at the other side of the table.\par
\tab Powell repressed a sudden attack of nerves. These robots possessed peculiar brains. Oh, the three Laws of Robotics held. They had to. All of U. S. Robots, from Robertson himself to the new floor-sweeper, would insist on that. So QT-1 was safe! And yet the QT models were the first of their kind, and this was the first of the QT\rquote s. Mathematical squiggles on paper were not always the most comforting protection against robotic fact.\par
\tab Finally, the robot spoke. His voice carried the cold timbre inseparable from a metallic diaphragm, \ldblquote Do you realize the seriousness of such a statement, Powell?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Something made you, Cutie,\rdblquote  pointed out Powell. \ldblquote You admit yourself that your memory seems to spring full-grown from an absolute blankness of a week ago. I\rquote m giving you the explanation. Donovan and I put you together from the parts shipped us.\rdblquote\par
\tab Cutie gazed upon his long, supple fingers in an oddly human attitude of mystification, \ldblquote It strikes me that there should be a more satisfactory explanation than that. For you to make me seems improbable.\rdblquote\par
\tab The Earthman laughed quite suddenly, \ldblquote In Earth\rquote s name, why?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Call it intuition. That\rquote s all it is so far. But I intend to reason it out, though. A chain of valid reasoning can end only with the determination of truth, and I\rquote ll stick till I get there.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell stood up and seated himself at the table\rquote s edge next to the robot. He felt a sudden strong sympathy for this strange machine. It was not at all like the ordinary robot, attending to his specialized task at the station with the intensity of a deeply ingrooved positronic path.\par
\tab He placed a hand upon Cutie\rquote s steel shoulder and the metal was cold and hard to the touch.\par
\tab\ldblquote Cutie,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote I\rquote m going to try to explain something to you. You\rquote re the first robot who\rquote s ever exhibited curiosity as to his own existence -- and I think the first that\rquote s really intelligent enough to understand the world outside. Here, come with me.\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot rose erect smoothly and his thickly sponge-rubber soled feet made no noise as he followed Powell. The Earthman touched a button and a square section of the wall flickered aside. The thick, clear glass revealed space -- star speckled.\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ve seen that in the observation ports in the engine room,\rdblquote  said Cutie.\par
\tab\ldblquote I know,\rdblquote  said Powell. \ldblquote What do you think it is?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Exactly what it seems -- a black material just beyond this glass that is spotted with little gleaming dots. I know that our director sends out beams to some of these dots, always to the same ones -- and also that these dots shift and that the beams shift with them. That is all.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Good! Now I want you to listen carefully. The blackness is emptiness vast emptiness stretching out infinitely. The little, gleaming dots are huge masses of energy-filled matter. They are globes, some of them millions of miles in diameter and for comparison; this station is only one mile across. They seem so tiny because they are incredibly far off.\par
\tab\ldblquote The dots to which our energy beams are directed are nearer and much smaller. They are cold and hard and human beings like myself live upon their surfaces -- many billions of them. It is from one of these worlds that Donovan and I come. Our beams feed these worlds energy drawn from one of those huge incandescent globes that happens to be near us. We call that globe the Sun and it is on the other side of the station where you can\rquote t see it.\rdblquote\par
\tab Cutie remained motionless before the port, like a steel statue. His head did not turn as he spoke, \ldblquote Which particular dot of light do you claim to come from?\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell searched, \ldblquote There it is, the very bright one in the corner, we call it Earth.\rdblquote  He grinned. \ldblquote Good old Earth. There are three billions of us there, Cutie -- and in about two weeks I\rquote ll be back there with them\rdblquote\par
\tab And then, surprisingly enough, Cutie hummed abstractedly. There was no tune to it, but it possessed a curious twanging quality as of plucked strings. It ceased as suddenly as it had begun, \ldblquote But where do I come in, Powell? You haven\rquote t explained my existence.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The rest is simple. When these stations were first established to feed solar energy to the planets, they were run by humans. However, the heat, the hard solar radiations, and the electron storms made the post a difficult one. Robots were developed to replace human labor and now only two human executives are required for each station. We are trying to replace even those, and that\rquote s where you come in. You\rquote re the highest type of robot ever developed and if you show the ability to run this station independently, no human need ever come here again except to bring parts for repairs.\rdblquote\par
\tab His hand went up and the metal visi-lid snapped back into place. Powell returned to the table and polished an apple upon his sleeve before biting into it.\par
\tab The red glow of the robot\rquote s eyes held him. \ldblquote Do you expect me,\rdblquote  said Cutie slowly, \ldblquote to believe any such complicated, implausible hypothesis as you have just outlined? What do you take me for?\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell sputtered apple fragments onto the table and turned red. \ldblquote Why damn you, it wasn\rquote t a hypothesis. Those were facts\rdblquote\par
\tab Cutie sounded grim, \ldblquote Globes of energy millions of miles across! Worlds with three billion humans on them! Infinite emptiness! Sorry, Powell, but I don\rquote t believe it. I\rquote ll puzzle this thing out for myself. Good-by.\rdblquote\par
\tab He turned and stalked out of the room. He brushed past Michael Donovan on the threshold with a grave nod and passed down the corridor, oblivious to the astounded stare that followed him.\par
\tab Mike Donovan rumpled his red hair and shot an annoyed glance at Powell, \ldblquote What was that walking junk yard talking about? What doesn\rquote t he believe?\rdblquote\par
\tab The other dragged at his mustache bitterly. \ldblquote He\rquote s a skeptic,\rdblquote  was the bitter response. \ldblquote He doesn\rquote t believe we made him or that Earth exists or space or stars.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Sizzling Saturn, we\rquote ve got a lunatic robot on our hands.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote He says he\rquote s going to figure it all out for himself.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, now,\rdblquote  said Donovan sweetly, \ldblquote I do hope he\rquote ll condescend to explain it all to me after he\rquote s puzzled everything out\rdblquote  Then, with sudden rage, \ldblquote Listen! If that metal mess gives me any lip like that, I\rquote ll knock that chromium cranium right off its torso.\rdblquote\par
\tab He seated himself with a jerk and drew a paper-backed mystery novel out of his inner jacket pocket, \ldblquote That robot gives me the willies anyway -- too damned inquisitive!\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab Mike Donovan growled from behind a huge lettuce-and-tomato sandwich as Cutie knocked gently and entered.\par
\tab\ldblquote Is Powell here?\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan\rquote s voice was muffled, with pauses for mastication, \ldblquote He\rquote s gathering data on electronic stream functions. We\rquote re heading for a storm, looks like.\rdblquote\par
\tab Gregory Powell entered as he spoke, eyes on the graphed paper in his hands, and dropped into a chair. He spread the sheets out before him and began scribbling calculations. Donovan stared over his shoulder, crunching lettuce and dribbling breadcrumbs. Cutie waited silently.\par
\tab Powell looked up, \ldblquote The Zeta Potential is rising, but slowly. Just the same, the stream functions are erratic and I don\rquote t know what to expect. Oh, hello, Cutie. I thought you were supervising the installation of the new drive bar.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s done,\rdblquote  said the robot quietly, \ldblquote and so I\rquote ve come to have a talk with the two of you\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh!\rdblquote  Powell looked uncomfortable. \ldblquote Well, sit down. No, not that chair. One of the legs is weak and you\rquote re no lightweight.\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot did so and said placidly, \ldblquote I have come to a decision.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan glowered and put the remnants of his sandwich aside. \ldblquote If it\rquote s on any of that screwy-\rdblquote\par
\tab The other motioned impatiently for silence, \ldblquote Go ahead, Cutie. We\rquote re listening.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I have spent these last two days in concentrated introspection,\rdblquote  said Cutie, \ldblquote and the results have been most interesting. I began at the one sure assumption I felt permitted to make. I, myself, exist, because I think-\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell groaned, \ldblquote Oh, Jupiter, a robot Descartes!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Who\rquote s Descartes?\rdblquote  demanded Donovan. \ldblquote Listen, do we have to sit here and listen to this metal maniac-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Keep quiet, Mike!\rdblquote\par
\tab Cutie continued imperturbably, \ldblquote And the question that immediately arose was: Just what is the cause of my existence?\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell\rquote s jaw set lumpily. \ldblquote You\rquote re being foolish. I told you already that we made you.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And if you don\rquote t believe us,\rdblquote  added Donovan, \ldblquote we\rquote ll gladly take you apart!\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot spread his strong hands in a deprecatory gesture, \ldblquote I accept nothing on authority. A hypothesis must be backed by reason, or else it is worthless -- and it goes against all the dictates of logic to suppose that you made me.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell dropped a restraining arm upon Donovan\rquote s suddenly bunched fist. \ldblquote Just why do you say that?\rdblquote\par
\tab Cutie laughed. It was a very inhuman laugh -- the most machine-like utterance he had yet given vent to. It was sharp and explosive, as regular as a metronome and as uninflected.\par
\tab\ldblquote Look at you,\rdblquote  he said finally. \ldblquote I say this in no spirit of contempt, but look at you! The material you are made of is soft and flabby, lacking endurance and strength, depending for energy upon the inefficient oxidation of organic material -- like that.\rdblquote  He pointed a disapproving finger at what remained of Donovan\rquote s sandwich. \ldblquote Periodically you pass into a coma and the least variation in temperature, air pressure, humidity, or radiation intensity impairs your efficiency. You are \i makeshift\i0 .\par
\tab\ldblquote I, on the other hand, am a finished product. I absorb electrical energy directly and utilize it with an almost one hundred percent efficiency. I am composed of strong metal, am continuously conscious, and can stand extremes of environment easily. These are facts which, with the self-evident proposition that no being can create another being superior to itself, smashes your silly hypothesis to nothing.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Donovan\rquote s muttered curses rose into intelligibility as he sprang to his feet, rusty eyebrows drawn low. \ldblquote All right, you son of a hunk of iron ore, if we didn\rquote t make you, who did?\rdblquote\par
\tab Cutie nodded gravely. \ldblquote Very good, Donovan. That was indeed the next question. Evidently my creator must be more powerful than myself and so there was only one possibility.\rdblquote\par
\tab The Earthmen looked blank and Cutie continued, \ldblquote What is the center of activities here in the station? What do we all serve? What absorbs all our attention?\rdblquote  He waited expectantly.\par
\tab Donovan turned a startled look upon his companion. \ldblquote I\rquote ll bet this tinplated screwball is talking about the Energy Converter itself.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Is that right, Cutie?\rdblquote  grinned Powell.\par
\tab\ldblquote I am talking about the Master,\rdblquote  came the cold, sharp answer.\par
\tab It was the signal for a roar of laughter from Donovan, and Powell himself dissolved into a half-suppressed giggle.\par
\tab Cutie had risen to his feet and his gleaming eyes passed from one Earthman to the other. \ldblquote It is so just the same and I don\rquote t wonder that you refuse to believe. You two are not long to stay here, I\rquote m sure. Powell himself said that at first only men served the Master; that there followed robots for the routine work; and, finally, myself for the executive labor. The facts are no doubt true, but the explanation entirely illogical. Do you want the truth behind it all?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Go ahead, Cutie. You\rquote re amusing.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The Master created humans first as the lowest type, most easily formed. Gradually, he replaced them by robots, the next higher step, and finally he created me to take the place of the last humans. From now on, I serve the Master.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote ll do nothing of the sort,\rdblquote  said Powell sharply. \ldblquote You\rquote ll follow our orders and keep quiet, until we\rquote re satisfied that you can run the Converter. Get that! The Converter -- not the Master. If you don\rquote t satisfy us, you will be dismantled. And now -- if you don\rquote t mind -- you can leave. And take this data with you and file it properly.\rdblquote\par
\tab Cutie accepted the graphs handed him and left without another word. Donovan leaned back heavily in his chair and shoved thick fingers through his hair.\par
\tab\ldblquote There\rquote s going to be trouble with that robot. He\rquote s pure nuts!\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab The drowsy hum of the Converter is louder in the control room and mixed with it is the chuckle of the Geiger Counters and the erratic buzzing of half a dozen little signal lights.\par
\tab Donovan withdrew his eye from the telescope and flashed the Luxites on. \ldblquote The beam from Station #4 caught Mars on schedule. We can break ours now.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell nodded abstractedly. \ldblquote Cutie\rquote s down in the engine room. I\rquote ll flash the signal and he can take care of it. Look, Mike, what do you think of these figures?\rdblquote\par
\tab The other cocked an eye at them and whistled. \ldblquote Boy, that\rquote s what I call gamma-ray intensity. Old Sol is feeling his oats, all right.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yeah,\rdblquote  was the sour response, \ldblquote and we\rquote re in a bad position for an electron storm, too. Our Earth beam is right in the probable path.\rdblquote  He shoved his chair away from the table pettishly. \ldblquote Nuts! If it would only hold off till relief got here, but that\rquote s ten days off. Say, Mike, go on down and keep an eye on Cutie, will you?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote O.K. Throw me some of those almonds.\rdblquote  He snatched at the bag thrown him and headed for the elevator.\par
\tab It slid smoothly downward, and opened onto a narrow catwalk in the huge engine room. Donovan leaned over the railing and looked down. The huge generators were in motion and from the L-tubes came the low-pitched whir that pervaded the entire station.\par
\tab He could make out Cutie\rquote s large, gleaming figure at the Martian L-tube, watching closely as the team of robots worked in close-knit unison.\par
\tab And then Donovan stiffened. The robots, dwarfed by the mighty L-tube, lined up before it, heads bowed at a stiff angle, while Cutie walked up and down the line slowly. Fifteen seconds passed, and then, with a clank heard above the clamorous purring all about, they fell to their knees.\par
\tab Donovan squawked and raced down the narrow staircase. He came charging down upon them, complexion matching his hair and clenched fists beating the air furiously.\par
\tab\ldblquote What the devil is this, you brainless lumps? Come on! Get busy with that L-tube! If you don\rquote t have it apart, cleaned, and together again before the day is out, I\rquote ll coagulate your brains with alternating current.\rdblquote\par
\tab Not a robot moved!\par
\tab Even Cutie at the far end -- the only one on his feet -- remained silent, eyes fixed upon the gloomy recesses of the vast machine before him.\par
\tab Donovan shoved hard against the nearest robot.\par
\tab\ldblquote Stand up!\rdblquote  he roared.\par
\tab Slowly, the robot obeyed. His photoelectric eyes focused reproachfully upon the Earthman.\par
\tab\ldblquote There is no Master but the Master,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote and QT-1 is his prophet.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Huh?\rdblquote  Donovan became aware of twenty pairs of mechanical eyes fixed upon him and twenty stiff-timbered voices declaiming solemnly:\par
\tab\ldblquote There is no Master but the Master and QT-1 is his prophet!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m afraid,\rdblquote  put in Cutie himself at this point, \ldblquote that my friends obey a higher one than you, now.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The hell they do! You get out of here. I\rquote ll settle with you later and with these animated gadgets right now.\rdblquote\par
\tab Cutie shook his heavy head slowly. \ldblquote I\rquote m sorry, but you don\rquote t understand. These are robots -- and that means they are reasoning beings. They recognize the Master, now that I have preached Truth to them. All the robots do. They call me the prophet.\rdblquote  His head drooped. \ldblquote I am unworthy -- but perhaps-\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan located his breath and put it to use. \ldblquote Is that so? Now, isn\rquote t that nice? Now, isn\rquote t that just fine? Just let me tell you something, my brass baboon. There isn\rquote t any Master and there isn\rquote t any prophet and there isn\rquote t any question as to who\rquote s giving the orders. Understand?\rdblquote  His voice shot to a roar. \ldblquote Now, get out!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I obey only the Master.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Damn the Master!\rdblquote  Donovan spat at the L-tube. \ldblquote That for the Master! Do as I say!\rdblquote\par
\tab Cutie said nothing, nor did any other robot, but Donovan became aware of a sudden heightening of tension. The cold, staring eyes deepened their crimson, and Cutie seemed stiffer than ever.\par
\tab\ldblquote Sacrilege,\rdblquote  he whispered -- voice metallic with emotion.\par
\tab Donovan felt the first sudden touch of fear as Cutie approached. A robot could not feel anger -- but Cutie\rquote s eyes were unreadable.\par
\tab\ldblquote I am sorry, Donovan,\rdblquote  said the robot, \ldblquote but you can no longer stay here after this. Henceforth Powell and you are barred from the control room and the engine room.\rdblquote\par
\tab His hand gestured quietly and in a moment two robots had pinned Donovan\rquote s arms to his sides.\par
\tab Donovan had time for one startled gasp as he felt himself lifted from the floor and carried up the stairs at a pace rather better than a canter.\par
\par
\tab Gregory Powell raced up and down the officer\rquote s room, fist tightly balled. He cast a look of furious frustration at the closed door and scowled bitterly at Donovan.\par
\tab\ldblquote Why the devil did you have to spit at the L-tube?\rdblquote\par
\tab Mike Donovan, sunk deep in his chair, slammed at its arms savagely. \ldblquote What did you expect me to do with that electrified scarecrow? I\rquote m not going to knuckle under to any do-jigger I put together myself.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  came back sourly, \ldblquote but here you are in the officer\rquote s room with two robots standing guard at the door. That\rquote s not knuckling under, is it?\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan snarled. \ldblquote Wait till we get back to Base. Someone\rquote s going to pay for this. Those robots must obey us. It\rquote s the Second Law.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What\rquote s the use of saying that? They aren\rquote t obeying us. And there\rquote s probably some reason for it that we\rquote ll figure out too late. By the way, do you know what\rquote s going to happen to us when we get back to Base?\rdblquote  He stopped before Donovan\rquote s chair and stared savagely at him.\par
\tab\ldblquote What?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, nothing! Just back to Mercury Mines for twenty years. Or maybe Ceres Penitentiary.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What are you talking about?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The electron storm that\rquote s coming up. Do you know it\rquote s heading straight dead center across the Earth beam? I had just figured that out when that robot dragged me out of my chair.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan was suddenly pale. \ldblquote Sizzling Saturn.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And do you know what\rquote s going to happen to the beam -- because the storm will be a lulu. It\rquote s going to jump like a flea with the itch. With only Cutie at the controls, it\rquote s going to go out of focus and if it does, Heaven help Earth -- and us!\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan was wrenching at the door wildly, when Powell was only half through. The door opened, and the Earthman shot through to come up hard against an immovable steel arm.\par
\tab The robot stared abstractedly at the panting, struggling Earthman. \ldblquote The Prophet orders you to remain. Please do!\rdblquote  His arm shoved, Donovan reeled backward, and as he did so, Cutie turned the corner at the far end of the corridor. He motioned the guardian robots away, entered the officer\rquote s room and closed the door gently.\par
\tab Donovan whirled on Cutie in breathless indignation. \ldblquote This has gone far enough. You\rquote re going to pay for this farce.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Please, don\rquote t be annoyed,\rdblquote  replied the robot mildly. \ldblquote It was bound to come eventually, anyway. You see, you two have lost your function.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I beg your pardon,\rdblquote  Powell drew himself up stiffly. \ldblquote Just what do you mean, we\rquote ve lost our function?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Until I was created,\rdblquote  answered Cube, \ldblquote you tended the Master. That privilege is mine now and your only reason for existence has vanished. Isn\rquote t that obvious?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Not quite,\rdblquote  replied Powell bitterly, \ldblquote but what do you expect us to do now?\rdblquote\par
\tab Cutie did not answer immediately. He remained silent, as if in thought, and then one arm shot out and draped itself about Powell\rquote s shoulder. The other grasped Donovan\rquote s wrist and drew him closer.\par
\tab\ldblquote I like you two. You\rquote re inferior creatures, with poor reasoning faculties, but I really feel a sort of affection for you. You have served the Master well, and he will reward you for that. Now that your service is over, you will probably not exist much longer, but as long as you do, you shall be provided food, clothing and shelter, so long as you stay out of the control room and the engine room.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote He\rquote s pensioning us off, Greg!\rdblquote  yelled Donovan. \ldblquote Do something about it. It\rquote s humiliating!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Look here, Cutie, we can\rquote t stand for this. We\rquote re the bosses. This station is only a creation of human beings like me -- human beings that live on Earth and other planets. This is only an energy relay. You\rquote re only -- Aw, nuts!\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Cutie shook his head gravely. \ldblquote This amounts to an obsession. Why should you insist so on an absolutely false view of life? Admitted that non-robots lack the reasoning faculty, there is still the problem of-\rdblquote\par
\tab His voice died into reflective silence, and Donovan said with whispered intensity, \ldblquote If you only had a flesh-and-blood face, I would break it in.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell\rquote s fingers were in his mustache and his eyes were slitted. \ldblquote Listen, Cutie, if there is no such thing as Earth, how do you account for what you see through a telescope?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Pardon me!\rdblquote\par
\tab The Earthman smiled. \ldblquote I\rquote ve got you, eh? You\rquote ve made quite a few telescopic observations since being put together, Cutie. Have you noticed that several of those specks of light outside become disks when so viewed?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, that! Why certainly. It is simple magnification -- for the purpose of more exact aiming of the beam.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why aren\rquote t the stars equally magnified then?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You mean the other dots. Well, no beams go to them so no magnification is necessary. Really, Powell, even you ought to be able to figure these things out.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell stared bleakly upward. \ldblquote But you see more stars through a telescope. Where do they come from? Jumping Jupiter, where do they come from?\rdblquote\par
\tab Cutie was annoyed. \ldblquote Listen, Powell, do you think I\rquote m going to waste my time trying to pin physical interpretations upon every optical illusion of our instruments? Since when is the evidence of our senses any match for the clear light of rigid reason?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Look,\rdblquote  clamored Donovan, suddenly, writhing out from under Cutie\rquote s friendly, but metal-heavy arm, \ldblquote let\rquote s get to the nub of the thing. Why the beams at all? We\rquote re giving you a good, logical explanation. Can you do better?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The beams,\rdblquote  was the stiff reply, \ldblquote are put out by the Master for his own purposes. There are some things\rdblquote  -- he raised his eyes devoutly upward \ldblquote that are not to be probed into by us. In this matter, I seek only to serve and not to question.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell sat down slowly and buried his face in shaking hands. \ldblquote Get out of here, Cutie. Get out and let me think.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ll send you food,\rdblquote  said Cutie agreeably.\par
\tab A groan was the only answer and the robot left.\par
\tab\ldblquote Greg,\rdblquote  was Donovan\rquote s huskily whispered observation, \ldblquote this calls for strategy. We\rquote ve got to get him when he isn\rquote t expecting it and short-circuit him. Concentrated nitric acid in his joints-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Don\rquote t be a dope, Mike. Do you suppose he\rquote s going to let us get near him with acid in our hands? We\rquote ve got to talk to him, I tell you. We\rquote ve got to argue him into letting us back into the control room inside of forty-eight hours or our goose is broiled to a crisp.\rdblquote\par
\tab He rocked back and forth in an agony of impotence. \ldblquote Who the heck wants to argue with a robot? It\rquote s... it\rquote s-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Mortifying,\rdblquote  finished Donovan.\par
\tab\ldblquote Worse!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Say!\rdblquote  Donovan laughed suddenly. \ldblquote Why argue? Let\rquote s show him! Let\rquote s build us another robot right before his eyes. He\rquote ll have to eat his words then.\rdblquote\par
\tab A slowly widening smile appeared on Powell\rquote s face.\par
\tab Donovan continued, \ldblquote And think of that screwball\rquote s face when he sees us do it?\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Robots are, of course, manufactured on Earth, but their shipment through apace is much simpler if it can be done in parts to be put together at their place of use. It also, incidentally, eliminates the possibility of robots, in complete adjustment, wandering off while still on Earth and thus bringing U. S. Robots face to face with the strict laws against robots on Earth.\par
\tab Still, it placed upon men such as Powell and Donovan the necessity of synthesis of complete robots, -- a grievous and complicated task.\par
\tab Powell and Donovan were never so aware of that fact as upon that particular day when, in the assembly room, they undertook to create a robot under the watchful eyes of QT-1, Prophet of the Master.\par
\tab The robot in question, a simple MC model, lay upon the table, almost complete. Three hours\rquote  work left only the head undone, and Powell paused to swab his forehead and glanced uncertainly at Cutie.\par
\tab The glance was not a reassuring one. For three hours, Cutie had sat, speechless and motionless, and his face, inexpressive at all times, was now absolutely unreadable.\par
\tab Powell groaned. \ldblquote Let\rquote s get the brain in now, Mike!\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan uncapped the tightly sealed container and from the oil bath within he withdrew a second cube. Opening this in turn, he removed a globe from its sponge-rubber casing.\par
\tab He handled it gingerly, for it was the most complicated mechanism ever created by man. Inside the thin platinum plated \ldblquote skin\rdblquote  of the globe was a positronic brain, in whose delicately unstable structure were enforced calculated neuronic paths, which imbued each robot with what amounted to a pre-natal education.\par
\tab It fitted snugly into the cavity in the skull of the robot on the table. Blue metal closed over it and was welded tightly by the tiny atomic flare. Photoelectric eyes were attached carefully, screwed tightly into place and covered by thin, transparent sheets of steel-hard plastic.\par
\tab The robot awaited only the vitalizing flash of high-voltage electricity, and Powell paused with his hand on the switch.\par
\tab\ldblquote Now watch this, Cutie. Watch this carefully.\rdblquote\par
\tab The switch rammed home and there was a crackling hum. The two Earthmen bent anxiously over their creation.\par
\tab There was vague motion only at the outset -- a twitching of the joints. The head lifted, elbows propped it up, and the MC model swung clumsily off the table. Its footing was unsteady and twice abortive grating sounds were all it could do in the direction of speech.\par
\tab Finally, its voice, uncertain and hesitant, took form. \ldblquote I would like to start work. Where must I go?\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan sprang to the door. \ldblquote Down these stairs,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote You will be told what to do.\rdblquote\par
\tab The MC model was gone and the two Earthmen were alone with the still unmoving Cutie.\par
\tab\ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  said Powell, grinning, \ldblquote now do you believe that we made you?\rdblquote\par
\tab Cutie\rquote s answer was curt and final. \ldblquote No!\rdblquote  he said.\par
\tab Powell\rquote s grin froze and then relaxed slowly. Donovan\rquote s mouth dropped open and remained so.\par
\tab\ldblquote You see,\rdblquote  continued Cutie, easily, \ldblquote you have merely put together parts already made. You did remarkably well -- instinct, I suppose -- but you didn\rquote t really create the robot. The parts were created by the Master.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Listen,\rdblquote  gasped Donovan hoarsely, \ldblquote those parts were manufactured back on Earth and sent here.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, well,\rdblquote  replied Cutie soothingly, \ldblquote we won\rquote t argue.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, I mean it.\rdblquote  The Earthman sprang forward and grasped the robot\rquote s metal arm. \ldblquote If you were to read the books in the library, they could explain it so that there could be no possible doubt.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The books? I\rquote ve read them -- all of them! They\rquote re most ingenious.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell broke in suddenly. \ldblquote If you\rquote ve read them, what else is there to say? You can\rquote t dispute their evidence. You just can\rquote t!\rdblquote\par
\tab There was pity in Cutie\rquote s voice. \ldblquote Please, Powell, I certainly don\rquote t consider them a valid source of information. They, too, were created by the Master -- and were meant for you, not for me.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote How do you make that out?\rdblquote  demanded Powell.\par
\tab\ldblquote Because I, a reasoning being, am capable of deducing truth from a priori causes. You, being intelligent, but unreasoning, need an explanation of existence supplied to you, and this the Master did. That he supplied you with these laughable ideas of far-off worlds and people is, no doubt, for the best. Your minds are probably too coarsely grained for absolute Truth. However, since it is the Master\rquote s will that you believe your books, I won\rquote t argue with you any more.\rdblquote\par
\tab As he left, he turned, and said in a kindly tone, \ldblquote But don\rquote t feel badly. In the Master\rquote s scheme of things there is room for all. You poor humans have your place and though it is humble, you will be rewarded if you fill it well.\rdblquote\par
\tab He departed with a beatific air suiting the Prophet of the Master and the two humans avoided each other\rquote s eyes.\par
\tab Finally Powell spoke with an effort. \ldblquote Let\rquote s go to bed, Mike. I give up.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan said in a hushed voice, \ldblquote Say, Greg, you don\rquote t suppose he\rquote s right about all this, do you? He sounds so confident that I-\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell whirled on him. \ldblquote Don\rquote t be a fool. You\rquote d find out whether Earth exists when relief gets here next week and we have to go back to face the music.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then, for the love of Jupiter, we\rquote ve got to do something.\rdblquote  Donovan was half in tears. \ldblquote He doesn\rquote t believe us, or the books, or his eyes.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  said Powell bitterly, \ldblquote he\rquote s a reasoning robot -- damn it. He believes only reason, and there\rquote s one trouble with that-\rdblquote  His voice trailed away.\par
\tab\ldblquote What\rquote s that?\rdblquote  prompted Donovan.\par
\tab\ldblquote You can prove anything you want by coldly logical reason -- if you pick the proper postulates. We have ours and Cutie has his.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then let\rquote s get at those postulates in a hurry. The storm\rquote s due tomorrow.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell sighed wearily. \ldblquote That\rquote s where everything falls down. Postulates are based on assumption and adhered to by faith. Nothing in the Universe can shake them. I\rquote m going to bed.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, hell! I can\rquote t sleep!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Neither can I! But I might as well try -- as a matter of principle.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Twelve hours later, sleep was still just that -- a matter of principle, unattainable in practice.\par
\tab The storm had arrived ahead of schedule, and Donovan\rquote s florid face drained of blood as he pointed a shaking finger. Powell, stubble-jawed and dry-lipped, stared out the port and pulled desperately at his mustache.\par
\tab Under other circumstances, it might have been a beautiful sight. The stream of high-speed electrons impinging upon the energy beam fluoresced into ultra-spicules of intense light. The beam stretched out into shrinking nothingness, a-glitter with dancing, shining motes.\par
\tab The shaft of energy was steady, but the two Earthmen knew the value of naked-eyed appearances. Deviations in arc of a hundredth of a millisecond -- invisible to the eye -- were enough to send the beam wildly out of focus -- enough to blast hundreds of square miles of Earth into incandescent ruin.\par
\tab And a robot, unconcerned with beam, focus, or Earth, or anything but his Master was at the controls.\par
\tab Hours passed. The Earthmen watched in hypnotized silence. And then the darting dotlets of light dimmed and went out. The storm had ended.\par
\tab Powell\rquote s voice was flat. \ldblquote It\rquote s over!\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan had fallen into a troubled slumber and Powell\rquote s weary eyes rested upon him enviously. The signal-flash glared over and over again, but the Earthman paid no attention. It all was unimportant! All! Perhaps Cutie was right -- and he was only an inferior being with a made-to-order memory and a life that had outlived its purpose.\par
\tab He wished he were!\par
\tab Cutie was standing before him. \ldblquote You didn\rquote t answer the flash, so I walked in.\rdblquote  His voice was low. \ldblquote You don\rquote t look at all well, and I\rquote m afraid your term of existence is drawing to an end. Still, would you like to see some of the readings recorded today?\rdblquote\par
\tab Dimly, Powell was aware that the robot was making a friendly gesture, perhaps to quiet some lingering remorse in forcibly replacing the humans at the controls of the station. He accepted the sheets held out to him and gazed at them unseeingly.\par
\tab Cutie seemed pleased. \ldblquote Of course, it is a great privilege to serve the Master. You mustn\rquote t feel too badly about my having replaced you.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell grunted and shifted from one sheet to the other mechanically until his blurred sight focused upon a thin red line that wobbled its way across the ruled paper.\par
\tab He stared -- and stared again. He gripped it hard in both fists and rose to his feet, still staring. The other sheets dropped to the floor, unheeded.\par
\tab\ldblquote Mike, Mike!\rdblquote  He was shaking the other madly. \ldblquote He held it steady!\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan came to life. \ldblquote What? Wh-where-\rdblquote  And he, too, gazed with bulging eyes upon the record before him.\par
\tab Cutie broke in. \ldblquote What is wrong?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You kept it in focus,\rdblquote  stuttered Powell. \ldblquote Did you know that?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Focus? What\rquote s that?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You kept the beam directed sharply at the receiving station -- to within a ten-thousandth of a millisecond of arc.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What receiving station?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote On Earth. The receiving station on Earth,\rdblquote  babbled Powell. \ldblquote You kept it in focus.\rdblquote\par
\tab Cutie turned on his heel in annoyance. \ldblquote It is impossible to perform any act of kindness toward you two. Always the same phantasm! I merely kept all dials at equilibrium in accordance with the will of the Master.\rdblquote\par
\tab Gathering the scattered papers together, he withdrew stiffly, and Donovan said, as he left, \ldblquote Well, I\rquote ll be damned.\rdblquote\par
\tab He turned to Powell. \ldblquote What are we going to do now?\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell felt tired, but uplifted. \ldblquote Nothing. He\rquote s just shown he can run the station perfectly. I\rquote ve never seen an electron storm handled so well.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But nothing\rquote s solved. You heard what he said of the Master. We can\rquote t-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Look, Mike, he follows the instructions of the Master by means of dials, instruments, and graphs. That\rquote s all we ever followed. As a matter of fact, it accounts for his refusal to obey us. Obedience is the Second Law. No harm to humans is the first. How can he keep humans from harm, whether he knows it or not? Why, by keeping the energy beam stable. He knows he can keep it more stable than we can, since he insists he\rquote s the superior being, so he must keep us out of the control room. It\rquote s inevitable if you consider the Laws of Robotics.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Sure, but that\rquote s not the point. We can\rquote t let him continue this nitwit stuff about the Master.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why not?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Because whoever heard of such a damned thing? How are we going to trust him with the station, if he doesn\rquote t believe in Earth?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Can he handle the station?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, but-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then what\rquote s the difference what he believes!\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell spread his arms outward with a vague smile upon his face and tumbled backward onto the bed. He was asleep.\par
\par
\tab Powell was speaking while struggling into his lightweight space jacket.\par
\tab\ldblquote It would be a simple job,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote You can bring in new QT models one by one, equip them with an automatic shutoff switch to act within the week, so as to allow them enough time to learn the... uh... cult of the Master from the Prophet himself; then switch them to another station and revitalize them. We could have two QT\rquote s per-\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan unclasped his glassite visor and scowled. \ldblquote Shut up, and let\rquote s get out of here. Relief is waiting and I won\rquote t feel right until I actually see Earth and feel the ground under my feet -- just to make sure it\rquote s really there.\rdblquote\par
\tab The door opened as he spoke and Donovan, with a smothered curse, clicked the visor to, and turned a sulky back upon Cutie.\par
\tab The robot approached softly and there was sorrow in his voice. \ldblquote You are going?\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell nodded curtly. \ldblquote There will be others in our place.\rdblquote\par
\tab Cutie sighed, with the sound of wind humming through closely spaced wires. \ldblquote Your term of service is over and the time of dissolution has come. I expected it, but -- well, the Master\rquote s will be done!\rdblquote\par
\tab His tone of resignation stung Powell. \ldblquote Save the sympathy, Cube. We\rquote re heading for Earth, not dissolution.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It is best that you think so,\rdblquote  Cutie sighed again. \ldblquote I see the wisdom of the illusion now. I would not attempt to shake your faith, even if I could.\rdblquote  He departed -- the picture of commiseration.\par
\tab Powell snarled and motioned to Donovan. Sealed suitcases in hand, they headed for the air lock.\par
\tab The relief ship was on the outer landing and Franz Muller, his relief man, greeted them with stiff courtesy. Donovan made scant acknowledgment and passed into the pilot room to take over the controls from Sam Evans.\par
\tab Powell lingered. \ldblquote How\rquote s Earth?\rdblquote\par
\tab It was a conventional enough question and Muller gave the conventional answer, \ldblquote Still spinning.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell said, \ldblquote Good.\rdblquote\par
\tab Muller looked at him, \ldblquote The boys back at the U. S. Robots have dreamed up a new one, by the way. A multiple robot.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote A what?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What I said. There\rquote s a big contract for it. It must be just the thing for asteroid mining. You have a master robot with six sub-robots under it. --Like your fingers.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Has it been field-tested?\rdblquote  asked Powell anxiously.\par
\tab Muller smiled, \ldblquote Waiting for you, I hear.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell\rquote s fist balled, \ldblquote Damn it, we need a vacation.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, you\rquote ll get it. Two weeks, I think.\rdblquote\par
\tab He was donning the heavy space gloves in preparation for his term of duty here, and his thick eyebrows drew close together. \ldblquote How is this new robot getting along? It better be good, or I\rquote ll be damned if I let it touch the controls.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell paused before answering. His eyes swept the proud Prussian before him from the close-cropped hair on the sternly stubborn head, to the feet standing stiffly at attention -- and there was a sudden glow of pure gladness surging through him.\par
\tab\ldblquote The robot is pretty good,\rdblquote  he said slowly. \ldblquote I don\rquote t think you\rquote ll have to bother much with the controls.\rdblquote\par
\f3\tab\f0 He grinned -- and went into the ship. Muller would be here for several weeks.\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Catch That Rabbit\par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\scaps The vacation was longer than two weeks\scaps0 , that, Mike Donovan had to admit. It had been six months, with pay. He admitted that, too. But that, as he explained furiously, was fortuitous. U. S. Robots had to get the bugs out of the multiple robots, and there were plenty of bugs, and there are always at least half a dozen bugs left for the field-testing. So they waited and relaxed until the drawing-board men and the slide-rule boys had said \ldblquote OK!\rdblquote  And now he and Powell were out on the asteroid and it was not OK. He repeated that a dozen times, with a face that had gone beety, \ldblquote For the love of Pete, Greg, get realistic. What\rquote s the use of adhering to the letter of the specifications and watching the test go to pot? It\rquote s about time you got the red tape out of your pants and went to work.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m only saying,\rdblquote  said Gregory Powell, patiently, as one explaining electronics to an idiot child, \ldblquote that according to spec, those robots are equipped for asteroid mining without supervision. We\rquote re not supposed to watch them.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote All right. Look -- logic!\rdblquote  He lifted his hairy fingers and pointed. \ldblquote One: That new robot passed every test in the home laboratories. Two: United States Robots guaranteed their passing the test of actual performance on an asteroid. Three: The robots are not passing said tests. Four: If they don\rquote t pass, United States Robots loses ten million credits in cash and about one hundred million in reputation. Five: If they don\rquote t pass and we can\rquote t explain why they don\rquote t pass, it is just possible two good jobs may have to be bidden a fond farewell.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell groaned heavy behind a noticeably insincere smile. The unwritten motto of United States Robot and Mechanical Men Corp. was well known: \ldblquote No employee makes the same mistake twice. He is fired the first time.\rdblquote\par
\tab Aloud he said, \ldblquote You\rquote re as lucid as Euclid with everything except the facts. You\rquote ve watched that robot group for three shifts, you redhead, and they did their work perfectly. You said so yourself. What else can we do?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Find out what\rquote s wrong, that\rquote s what we can do. So they did work perfectly when I watched them. But on three different occasions when I didn\rquote t watch them, they didn\rquote t bring in any ore. They didn\rquote t even come back on schedule. I had to go after them.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And was anything wrong?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Not a thing. Not a thing. Everything was perfect. Smooth and perfect as the luminiferous ether. Only one little insignificant detail disturbed me -- there was no ore.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell scowled at the ceiling and pulled at his brown mustache. \ldblquote I\rquote ll tell you what, Mike. We\rquote ve been stuck with pretty lousy jobs in our time, but this takes the iridium asteroid. The whole business is complicated past endurance. Look, that robot, DV-5, has six robots under it. And not just under it -- they\rquote re part of it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I know that-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Shut up!\rdblquote  said Powell, savagely, \ldblquote I know you know it, but I\rquote m just describing the hell of it. Those six subsidiaries are part of DV-5 like your fingers are part of you and it gives them their orders neither by voice nor radio, but directly through positronic fields. Now -- there isn\rquote t a roboticist back at United States Robots that knows what a positronic field is or how it works. And neither do I. Neither do you.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The last,\rdblquote  agreed Donovan, philosophically, \ldblquote I know.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then look at our position. If everything works -- fine! If anything goes wrong -- we\rquote re out of our depth and there probably isn\rquote t a thing we can do, or anybody else. But the job belongs to us and not to anyone else so we\rquote re on the spot, Mike.\rdblquote  He blazed away for a moment in silence. Then, \ldblquote All right, have you got him outside?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Is everything normal now?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well he hasn\rquote t got religious mania, and he isn\rquote t running around in a circle spouting Gilbert and Sullivan, so I suppose he\rquote s normal.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan passed out the door, shaking his head viciously.\par
\par
\tab Powell reached for the \ldblquote Handbook of Robotics\rdblquote  that weighed down one side of his desk to a near-founder and opened it reverently. He had once jumped out of the window of a burning house dressed only in shorts and the \ldblquote Handbook.\rdblquote  In a pinch, he would have skipped the shorts.\par
\tab The \ldblquote Handbook\rdblquote  was propped up before him, when Robot DV-5 entered, with Donovan kicking the door shut behind him.\par
\tab Powell said somberly, \ldblquote Hi, Dave. How do you feel?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Fine,\rdblquote  said the robot. \ldblquote Mind if I sit down?\rdblquote  He dragged up the specially reinforced chair that was his, and folded gently into it.\par
\tab Powell regarded Dave -- laymen might think of robots by their serial numbers; roboticists never -- with approval. It was not over-massive by any means, in spite of its construction as thinking-unit of an integrated seven-unit robot team. It was seven feet tall, and a half-ton of metal and electricity. A lot? Not when that half-ton has to be a mass of condensers, circuits, relays, and vacuum cells that can handle practically any psychological reaction known to humans. And a positronic brain, which with ten pounds of matter and a few quintillions of positrons runs the whole show.\par
\tab Powell groped in his shirt pocket for a loose cigarette. \ldblquote Dave,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote you\rquote re a good fellow. There\rquote s nothing flighty or prima donnaish about you. You\rquote re a stable, rockbottom mining robot, except that you\rquote re equipped to handle six subsidiaries in direct coordination. As far as I know, that has not introduced any unstable paths in your brain-path map.\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot nodded, \ldblquote That makes me feel swell, but what are you getting at, boss?\rdblquote  He was equipped with an excellent diaphragm, and the presence of overtones in the sound unit robbed him of much of that metallic flatness that marks the usual robot voice.\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m going to tell you. With all that in your favor, what\rquote s going wrong with your job? For instance, today\rquote s B-shift?\rdblquote\par
\tab Dave hesitated, \ldblquote As far as I know, nothing.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You didn\rquote t produce any ore.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I know.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, then-\rdblquote\par
\tab Dave was having trouble, \ldblquote I can\rquote t explain that, boss. It\rquote s been giving me a case of nerves, or it would if I let it -- my subsidiaries worked smoothly. I know I did.\rdblquote  He considered, his photoelectric eyes glowing intensely. Then, \ldblquote I don\rquote t remember. The day ended and there was Mike and there were the ore cars, mostly empty.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan broke in, \ldblquote You didn\rquote t report at shift-end those days, Dave. You know that?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I know. But as to why-\rdblquote  He shook his head slowly and ponderously.\par
\tab Powell had the queasy feeling that if the robot\rquote s face were capable of expression, it would be one of pain and mortification. A robot, by its very nature, cannot bear to fail its function.\par
\tab Donovan dragged his chair up to Powell\rquote s desk and leaned over, \ldblquote Amnesia, do you think?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Can\rquote t say. But there\rquote s no use in trying to pin disease names on this. Human disorders apply to robots only as romantic analogies. They\rquote re no help to robotic engineering.\rdblquote  He scratched his neck; \ldblquote I hate to put him through the elementary brain-reaction tests. It won\rquote t help his self-respect any.\rdblquote\par
\tab He looked at Dave thoughtfully and then at the Field-Test outline given in the \ldblquote Handbook.\rdblquote  He said, \ldblquote See here, Dave, what about sitting through a test? It would be the wise thing to do.\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot rose, \ldblquote If you say so, boss.\rdblquote  There was pain in his voice.\par
\par
\tab It started simply enough. Robot DV-5 multiplied five-place figures to the heartless ticking of a stopwatch. He recited the prime numbers between a thousand and ten thousand. He extracted cube roots and integrated functions of varying complexity. He went through mechanical reactions in order of increasing difficulty. And, finally, worked his precise mechanical mind over the highest function of the robot world -- the solutions of problems in judgment and ethics.\par
\tab At the end of two hours, Powell was copiously besweated. Donovan had enjoyed a none-too-nutritious diet of fingernail and the robot said, \ldblquote How does it look, boss?\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell said, \ldblquote I\rquote ve got to think it over, Dave. Snap judgments won\rquote t help much. Suppose you go back to the C-shift. Take it easy. Don\rquote t press too hard for quota just for a while -- and we\rquote ll fix things up.\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot left. Donovan looked at Powell.\par
\tab\ldblquote Well-\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell seemed determined to push up his mustache by the roots. He said, \ldblquote There is nothing wrong with the currents of his positronic brain.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote d hate to be that certain.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, Jupiter, Mike! The brain is the surest part of a robot. It\rquote s quintuple-checked back on Earth. If they pass the field test perfectly, the way Dave did, there just isn\rquote t a chance of brain misfunction. That test covered every key path in the brain.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote So where are we?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Don\rquote t rush me. Let me work this out. There\rquote s still the possibility of a mechanical breakdown in the body. That leaves about fifteen hundred condensers, twenty thousand individual electric circuits, five hundred vacuum cells, a thousand relays, and upty-ump thousand other individual pieces of complexity that can be wrong. And these mysterious positron is fields no one knows anything about.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Listen, Greg,\rdblquote  Donovan grew desperately urgent. \ldblquote I\rquote ve got an idea. That robot may be lying. He never-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Robots can\rquote t knowingly lie, you fool. Now if we had the McCormack-Wesley tester, we could check each individual item in his body within twenty-four to forty-eight hours, but the only two M-W testers existing are on Earth, and they weigh ten tons, are on concrete foundations and can\rquote t be moved. Isn\rquote t that peachy?\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan pounded the desk, \ldblquote But, Greg, he only goes wrong when we\rquote re not around. There\rquote s something -- sinister -- about -- that.\rdblquote  He punctuated the sentence with slams of fist against desk.\par
\tab\ldblquote You,\rdblquote  said Powell, slowly, \ldblquote make me sick. You\rquote ve been reading adventure novels.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What I want to know,\rdblquote  shouted Donovan, \ldblquote is what we\rquote re going to do about it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ll tell you. I\rquote m going to install a visiplate right over my desk. Right on the wall over there, see!\rdblquote  He jabbed a vicious finger at the spot. \ldblquote Then I\rquote m going to focus it at whatever part of the mine is being worked, and I\rquote m going to watch. That\rquote s all.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s all? Greg-\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell rose from his chair and leaned his balled fists on the desk, \ldblquote Mike, I\rquote m having a hard time.\rdblquote  His voice was weary. \ldblquote For a week, you\rquote ve been plaguing me about Dave. You say he\rquote s gone wrong. Do you know how he\rquote s gone wrong? No! Do you know what shape this wrongness takes? No! Do you know what brings it on? No! Do you know what snaps him out? No! Do you know anything about it? No! Do I know anything about it? No! So what do you want me to do?\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan\rquote s arm swept outward in a vague, grandiose gesture, \ldblquote You got me!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote So I tell you again. Before we do anything toward a cure, we\rquote ve got to find out what the disease is in the first place. The first step in cooking rabbit stew is catching the rabbit. Well, we\rquote ve got to catch that rabbit! Now get out of here.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Donovan stared at the preliminary outline of his field report with weary eyes. For one thing, he was tired and for another, what was there to report while things were unsettled? He felt resentful.\par
\tab He said, \ldblquote Greg, we\rquote re almost a thousand tons behind schedule.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You,\rdblquote  replied Powell, never looking up, \ldblquote are telling me something I don\rquote t know.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What I want to know,\rdblquote  said Donovan, in sudden savagery, \ldblquote is why we\rquote re always tangled up with new-type robots. I\rquote ve finally decided that the robots that were good enough for my great-uncle on my mother\rquote s side are good enough for me. I\rquote m for what\rquote s tried and true. The test of time is what counts -- good, solid, old-fashioned robots that never go wrong.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell threw a book with perfect aim, and Donovan went tumbling off his seat.\par
\tab\ldblquote Your job,\rdblquote  said Powell, evenly, \ldblquote for the last five years has been to test new robots under actual working conditions for United States Robots. Because you and I have been so injudicious as to display proficiency at the task, we\rquote ve been rewarded with the dirtiest jobs. That,\rdblquote  he jabbed holes in the air with his finger in Donovan\rquote s direction, \ldblquote is your work. You\rquote ve been griping about it, from personal memory, since about five minutes after United States Robots signed you up. Why don\rquote t you resign?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, I\rquote ll tell you.\rdblquote  Donovan rolled onto his stomach, and took a firm grip on his wild, red hair to hold his head up. \ldblquote There\rquote s a certain principle involved. After all, as a troubleshooter, I\rquote ve played a part in the development of new robots. There\rquote s the principle of aiding scientific advance. But don\rquote t get me wrong. It\rquote s not the principle that keeps me going; it\rquote s the money they pay us. Greg!\rquote\par
\tab Powell jumped at Donovan\rquote s wild shout, and his eyes followed the redhead\rquote s to the visiplate, when they goggled in fixed horror. He whispered, \ldblquote Holy -- howling -- Jupiter!\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan scrambled breathlessly to his feet, \ldblquote Look at them, Greg. They\rquote ve gone nuts.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell said, \ldblquote Get a pair of suits. We\rquote re going out there.\rdblquote\par
\tab He watched the posturings of the robots on the visiplate. They were bronzy gleams of smooth motion against the shadowy crags of the airless asteroid. There was a marching formation now, and in their own dim body light, the roughhewn walls of the mine tunnel swam past noiselessly, checkered with misty erratic blobs of shadow. They marched in unison, seven of them, with Dave at the head. They wheeled and turned in macabre simultaneity; and melted through changes of formation with the weird ease of chorus dancers in Lunar Bowl.\par
\tab Donovan was back with the suits, \ldblquote They\rquote ve gone jingo on us, Greg. That\rquote s a military march.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote For all you know,\rdblquote  was the cold response, \ldblquote it may be a series of callisthenic exercises. Or Dave may be under the hallucination of being a dancing master. Just you think first, and don\rquote t bother to speak afterward, either.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan scowled and slipped a detonator into the empty side holster with an ostentatious shove. He said, \ldblquote Anyway, there you are. So we work with new-model robots. It\rquote s our job, granted. But answer me one question. Why... why does something invariably go wrong with them?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Because,\rdblquote  said Powell, somberly, \ldblquote we are accursed. Let\rquote s go!\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Far ahead through the thick velvety blackness of the corridors that reached past the illuminated circles of their flashlights, robot light twinkled.\par
\tab\ldblquote There they are,\rdblquote  breathed Donovan.\par
\tab Powell whispered tensely, \ldblquote I\rquote ve been trying to get him by radio but he doesn\rquote t answer. The radio circuit is probably out.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then I\rquote m glad the designers haven\rquote t worked out robots who can work in total darkness yet. I\rquote d hate to have to find seven mad robots in a black pit without radio communication, if they weren\rquote t lit up like blasted radioactive Christmas trees.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Crawl up on the ledge above, Mike. They\rquote re coming this way, and I want to watch them at close range. Can you make it?\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan made the jump with a grunt. Gravity was considerably below Earth-normal, but with a heavy suit, the advantage was not too great, and the ledge meant a near ten-foot jump. Powell followed.\par
\tab The column of robots was trailing Dave single-file. In mechanical rhythm, they converted to double and returned to single in different order. It was repeated over and over again and Dave never turned his head.\par
\tab Dave was within twenty feet when the play-acting ceased. The subsidiary robots broke formation, waited a moment, then clattered off into the distance -- very rapidly. Dave looked after them, then slowly sat down. He rested his head in one hand in a very human gesture.\par
\tab His voice sounded in Powell\rquote s earphones, \ldblquote Are you here, boss?\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell beckoned to Donovan and hopped off the ledge.\par
\tab\ldblquote O.K., Dave, what\rquote s been going on?\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot shook his head, \ldblquote I don\rquote t know. One moment I was handling a tough outcropping in Tunnel 17, and the next I was aware of humans close by, and I found myself half a mile down main-stem.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Where are the subsidiaries now?\rdblquote  asked Donovan.\par
\tab\ldblquote Back at work, of course. How much time has been lost?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Not much. Forget it.\rdblquote  Then to Donovan, Powell added, \ldblquote Stay with him the rest of the shift. Then, come back. I\rquote ve got a couple of ideas.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab It was three hours before Donovan returned. He looked tired. Powell said, \ldblquote How did it go?\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan shrugged wearily, \ldblquote Nothing ever goes wrong when you watch them. Throw me a butt, will you?\rdblquote\par
\tab The redhead lit it with exaggerated care and blew a careful smoke ring. He said, \ldblquote I\rquote ve been working it out, Greg. You know, Dave has a queer background for a robot. There are six others under him in an extreme regimentation. He\rquote s got life and death power over those subsidiary robots and it must react on his mentality. Suppose he finds it necessary to emphasize this power as a concession to his ego.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Get to the point.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s right here. Suppose we have militarism. Suppose he\rquote s fashioning himself an army. Suppose --  he\rquote s training them in military maneuvers. Suppose-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Suppose you go soak your head. Your nightmares must be in technicolor. You\rquote re postulating a major aberration of the positronic brain. If your analysis were correct, Dave would have to break down the First Law of Robotics: that a robot may not injure a human being or, through inaction, allow a human being to be injured. The type of militaristic attitude and domineering ego you propose must have as the end-point of its logical implications, domination of humans.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote All right. How do you know that isn\rquote t the fact of the matter?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Because any robot with a brain like that would, one, never have left the factory, and two, be spotted immediately if it ever was. I tested Dave, you know.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell shoved his chair back and put his feet on the desk. \ldblquote No. We\rquote re still in the position where we can\rquote t make our stew because we haven\rquote t the slightest notion as to what\rquote s wrong. For instance, if we could find out what that dance macabre we witnessed was all about, we would be on the way out.\rdblquote\par
\tab He paused, \ldblquote Now listen, Mike, how does this sound to you? Dave goes wrong only when neither of us is present. And when he is wrong, the arrival of either of us snaps him out of it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I once told you that was sinister.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Don\rquote t interrupt. How is a robot different when humans are not present? The answer is obvious. There is a larger requirement of personal initiative. In that case, look for the body parts that are affected by the new requirements.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Golly.\rdblquote  Donovan sat up straight, then subsided. \ldblquote No, no. Not enough. It\rquote s too broad. It doesn\rquote t cut the possibilities much.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Can\rquote t help that. In any case, there\rquote s no danger of not making quota. We\rquote ll take shifts watching those robots through the visor. Any time anything goes wrong, we get to the scene of action immediately. That will put them right.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But the robots will fail spec anyway, Greg. United States Robots can\rquote t market DV models with a report like that.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Obviously. We\rquote ve got to locate the error in make-up and correct it -- and we\rquote ve got ten days to do it in.\rdblquote  Powell scratched his head. \ldblquote The trouble is... well, you had better look at the blueprints yourself.\rdblquote\par
\tab The blueprints covered the floor like a carpet and Donovan crawled over the face of them following Powell\rquote s erratic pencil.\par
\tab Powell said, \ldblquote Here\rquote s where you come in, Mike. You\rquote re the body specialist, and I want you to check me. I\rquote ve been trying to cut out all circuits not involved in the personal initiative hookup. Right here, for instance, is the trunk artery involving mechanical operations. I cut out all routine side routes as emergency divisions-\rdblquote  He looked up, \ldblquote What do you think?\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan had a very bad taste in his mouth, \ldblquote The job\rquote s not that simple, Greg. Personal initiative isn\rquote t an electric circuit you can separate from the rest and study. When a robot is on his own, the intensity of the body activity increases immediately on almost all fronts. There isn\rquote t a circuit entirely unaffected. What must be done is to locate the particular condition -- a very specific condition -- that throws him off, and then start eliminating circuits.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell got up and dusted himself, \ldblquote Hmph. All right. Take away the blueprints and burn them.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan said, \ldblquote You see when activity intensifies, anything can happen, given one single faulty part. Insulation breaks down, a condenser spills over, a connection sparks, a coil overheats. And if you work blind, with the whole robot to choose from, you\rquote ll never find the bad spot. If you take Dave apart and test every point of his body mechanism one by one, putting him together each time, and trying him out\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote All right. All right. I can see through a porthole, too.\rdblquote\par
\tab They faced each other hopelessly, and then Powell said cautiously, \ldblquote Suppose we interview one of the subsidiaries.\rdblquote\par
\tab Neither Powell nor Donovan had ever had previous occasion to talk to a \ldblquote finger.\rdblquote  It could talk; it wasn\rquote t quite the perfect analogy to a human finger. In fact, it had a fairly developed brain, but that brain was tuned primarily to the reception of orders via positronic field, and its reaction to independent stimuli was rather fumbling.\par
\tab Nor was Powell certain as to its name. Its serial number was DV-5-2, but that was not very useful.\par
\tab He compromised. \ldblquote Look, pal,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote I\rquote m going to ask you to do some hard thinking and then you can go back to your boss.\rdblquote\par
\tab The \ldblquote finger\rdblquote  nodded its head stiffly, but did not exert its limited brainpower on speech.\par
\tab\ldblquote Now on four occasions recently,\rdblquote  Powell said, \ldblquote your boss deviated from brain-scheme. Do you remember those occasions?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, sir.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan growled angrily, \ldblquote He remembers. I tell you there is something very sinister-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, go bash your skull. Of course, the \lquote finger\rquote  remembers. There is nothing wrong with him.\rdblquote  Powell turned back to the robot, \ldblquote What were you doing each time... I mean the whole group\rdblquote\par
\tab The \ldblquote finger\rdblquote  had a curious air of reciting by rote, as if he answered questions by the mechanical pressure of his brainpan, but without any enthusiasm whatever.\par
\tab He said, \ldblquote The first time we were at work on a difficult outcropping in Tunnel 17, Level B. The second time we were buttressing the roof against a possible cave-in. The third time we were preparing accurate blasts in order to tunnel farther without breaking into a subterranean fissure. The fourth time was just after a minor cave-in\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What happened at these times?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It is difficult to describe. An order would be issued, but before we could receive and interpret it, a new order came to march in queer formation.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell snapped out, \ldblquote Why?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t know.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan broke in tensely, \ldblquote What was the first order... the one that was superseded by the marching directions?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t know. I sensed that an order was sent, but there was never time to receive it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Could you tell us anything about it? Was it the same order each time?\rdblquote\par
\tab The \ldblquote finger\rdblquote  shook his head unhappily, \ldblquote I don\rquote t know.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell leaned back, \ldblquote All right, get back to your boss.\rdblquote\par
\tab The \ldblquote finger\rdblquote  left, with visible relief.\par
\tab Donovan said, \ldblquote Well, we accomplished a lot that time. That was real sharp dialogue all the way through. Listen, Dave and that imbecile \lquote finger\rquote  are both holding out on us. There is too much they don\rquote t know and don\rquote t remember. We\rquote ve got to stop trusting them, Greg.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell brushed his mustache the wrong way, \ldblquote So help me, Mike, another fool remark out of you, and I\rquote ll take away your rattle and teething ring.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote All right. You\rquote re the genius of the team. I\rquote m just a poor sucker. Where do we stand?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Right behind the eight ball. I tried to work it backward through the \lquote finger,\rquote  and couldn\rquote t. So we\rquote ve got to work it forward.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote A great man,\rdblquote  marveled Donovan. \ldblquote How simple that makes it. Now translate that into English, Master.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Translating it into baby talk would suit you better. I mean that we\rquote ve got to find out what order it is that Dave gives just before everything goes black. It would be the key to the business.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And how do you expect to do that? We can\rquote t get close to him because nothing will go wrong as long as we are there. We can\rquote t catch the orders by radio because they are transmitted via this positronic field. That eliminates the close-range and the long-range method, leaving us a neat, cozy zero.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote By direct observation, yes. There\rquote s still deduction.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Huh?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We\rquote re going on shifts, Mike.\rdblquote  Powell smiled grimly. \ldblquote And we are not taking our eyes off the visiplate. We\rquote re going to watch every action of those steel headaches. When they go off into their act, we\rquote re going to see what happened immediately before and we\rquote re going to deduce the order.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan opened his mouth and left it that way for a full minute. Then he said in strangled tones, \ldblquote I resign. I quit.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You have ten days to think up something better,\rdblquote  said Powell wearily.\par
\tab Which, for eight days, Donovan tried mightily to do. For eight days, on alternate four-hour shifts, he watched with aching and bleary eyes those glinty metallic forms move against the vague background. And for eight days in the four-hour in-betweens, he cursed United States Robots, the DV models, and the day he was born.\par
\tab And then on the eighth day, when Powell entered with an aching head and sleepy eyes for his shift, Donovan stood up and with very careful and deliberate aim launched a heavy bookend for the exact center of the visiplate. There was a very appropriate splintering noise.\par
\tab Powell gasped, \ldblquote What did you do that for?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Because,\rdblquote  said Donovan, almost calmly, \ldblquote I\rquote m not watching it any more. We\rquote ve got two days left and we haven\rquote t found out a thing. DV-5 is a lousy loss. He\rquote s stopped five times since I\rquote ve been watching and three times on your shift, and I can\rquote t make out what orders he gave, and you couldn\rquote t make it out. And I don\rquote t believe you could ever make it out because I know I couldn\rquote t ever.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Jumping Space, how can you watch six robots at the same time? One makes with the hands, and one with the feet and one like a windmill and another is jumping up and down like a maniac. And the other two... devil knows what they are doing. And then they all stop. So! So!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Greg, we\rquote re not doing it right. We got to get up close. We\rquote ve got to watch what they\rquote re doing from where we can see the details.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell broke a bitter silence. \ldblquote Yeah, and wait for something to go wrong with only two days to go.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Is it any better watching from here?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s more comfortable.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Ah -- But there\rquote s something you can do there that you can\rquote t do here.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What\rquote s that?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You can make them stop -- at whatever time you choose and while you\rquote re prepared and watching to see what goes wrong.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell startled into alertness, \ldblquote Howzzat?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, figure it out, yourself. You\rquote re the brains you say. Ask yourself some questions. When does DV-5 go out of whack? When did that \lquote finger\rquote  say he did? When a cave-in threatened, or actually occurred, when delicately measured explosives were being laid down, when a difficult seam was hit.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote In other words, during emergencies,\rdblquote  Powell was excited.\par
\tab\ldblquote Right! When did you expect it to happen! It\rquote s the personal initiative factor that\rquote s giving us the trouble. And it\rquote s just during emergencies in the absence of a human being that personal initiative is most strained. Now what is the logical deduction? How can we create our own stoppage when and where we want it?\rdblquote  He paused triumphantly -- he was beginning to enjoy his role -- and answered his own question to forestall the obvious answer on Powell\rquote s tongue. \ldblquote By creating our own emergency.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell said, \ldblquote Mike -- you\rquote re right.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Thanks, pal. I knew I\rquote d do it some day.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote All right, and skip the sarcasm. We\rquote ll save it for Earth, and preserve it in jars for future long, cold winters. Meanwhile, what emergency can we create?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We could flood the mines, if this weren\rquote t an airless asteroid.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote A witticism, no doubt,\rdblquote  said Powell. \ldblquote Really, Mike, you\rquote ll incapacitate me with laughter. What about a mild cave-in?\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan pursed his lips and said, \ldblquote O.K. by me.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Good. Let\rquote s get started.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell felt uncommonly like a conspirator as he wound his way over the craggy landscape. His sub-gravity walk teetered across the broken ground, kicking rocks to right and left under his weight in noiseless puffs of gray dust. Mentally, though, it was the cautious crawl of the plotter.\par
\tab He said, \ldblquote Do you know where they are?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I think so, Greg.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote All right,\rdblquote  Powell said gloomily, \ldblquote but if any \lquote finger\rquote  gets within twenty feet of us, we\rquote ll be sensed whether we are in the line of sight or not. I hope you know that.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote When I need an elementary course in robotics, I\rquote ll file an application with you formally, and in triplicate. Down through here.\rdblquote\par
\tab They were in the tunnels now; even the starlight was gone. The two hugged the walls, flashes flickering out the way in intermittent bursts. Powell felt for the security of his detonator.\par
\tab\ldblquote Do you know this tunnel, Mike?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Not so good. It\rquote s a new one. I think I can make it out from what I saw in the visiplate, though-\rdblquote\par
\tab Interminable minutes passed, and then Mike said, \ldblquote Feel that!\rdblquote\par
\tab There was a slight vibration thrumming the wall against the fingers of Powell\rquote s metal-incased hand. There was no sound, naturally.\par
\tab\ldblquote Blasting! We\rquote re pretty close.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Keep your eyes open,\rdblquote  said Powell.\par
\tab Donovan nodded impatiently.\par
\tab It was upon them and gone before they could seize themselves -- just a bronze glint across the field of vision. They clung together in silence.\par
\tab Powell whispered, \ldblquote Think it sensed us?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Hope not. But we\rquote d better flank them. Take the first side tunnel to the right.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Suppose we miss them altogether?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well what do you want to do? Go back?\rdblquote  Donovan grunted fiercely. \ldblquote They\rquote re within a quarter of a mile. I was watching them through the visiplate, wasn\rquote t I? And we\rquote ve got two days-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, shut up. You\rquote re wasting your oxygen. Is this a side passage here?\rdblquote  The flash flicked. \ldblquote It is. Let\rquote s go.\rdblquote\par
\tab The vibration was considerably more marked and the ground below shuddered uneasily.\par
\tab\ldblquote This is good,\rdblquote  said Donovan, \ldblquote if it doesn\rquote t give out on us, though.\rdblquote  He flung his light ahead anxiously.\par
\tab They could touch the roof of the tunnel with a half-upstretched hand, and the bracings had been newly placed.\par
\tab Donovan hesitated, \ldblquote Dead end, let\rquote s go back.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No. Hold on.\rdblquote  Powell squeezed clumsily past. \ldblquote Is that light ahead?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Light? I don\rquote t see any. Where would there be light down here?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Robot light.\rdblquote  He was scrambling up a gentle incline on hands and knees. His voice was hoarse and anxious in Donovan\rquote s ears. \ldblquote Hey, Mike, come up here.\rdblquote\par
\tab There was light. Donovan crawled up and over Powell\rquote s outstretched legs. \ldblquote An opening?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes. They must be working into this tunnel from the other side now I think.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan felt the ragged edges of the opening that looked out into what the cautious flashlight showed to be a larger and obviously main stem tunnel. The hole was too small for a man to go through, almost too small for two men to look through simultaneously.\par
\tab There\rquote s nothing there,\rdblquote  said Donovan.\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, not now. But there must have been a second ago or we wouldn\rquote t have seen light. Watch out!\rdblquote\par
\tab The walls rolled about them and they felt the impact. A fine dust showered down. Powell lifted a cautious head and looked again. \ldblquote All right, Mike. They\rquote re there.\rdblquote\par
\tab The glittering robots clustered fifty feet down the main stem. Metal arms labored mightily at the rubbish heap brought down by the last blast.\par
\tab Donovan urged eagerly, \ldblquote Don\rquote t waste time. It won\rquote t be long before they get through, and the next blast may get us.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote For Pete\rquote s sake, don\rquote t rush me.\rdblquote  Powell unlimbered the detonator, and his eyes searched anxiously across the dusky background where the only light was robot light and it was impossible to tell a projecting boulder from a shadow.\par
\tab\ldblquote There\rquote s a spot in the roof, see it, almost over them. The last blast didn\rquote t quite get it. If you can get it at the base, half the roof will cave in.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell followed the dim finger, \ldblquote Check! Now fasten your eye on the robots and pray they don\rquote t move too far from that part of the tunnel. They\rquote re my light sources. Are all seven there?\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan counted, \ldblquote All seven.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, then, watch them. Watch every motion!\rdblquote\par
\tab His detonator was lifted and remained poised while Donovan watched and cursed and blinked the sweat out of his eye.\par
\tab It flashed!\par
\tab There was a jar, a series of hard vibrations, and then a jarring thump that threw Powell heavily against Donovan.\par
\tab Donovan yowled, \ldblquote Greg, you threw me off. I didn\rquote t see a thing.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell stared about wildly, \ldblquote Where are they?\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan fell into a stupid silence. There was no sign of the robots. It was dark as the depths of the River Styx.\par
\tab\ldblquote Think we buried them?\rdblquote  quavered Donovan.\par
\tab\ldblquote Let\rquote s get down there. Don\rquote t ask me what I think.\rdblquote  Powell crawled backward at tumbling speed.\par
\tab\ldblquote Mike!\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan paused in the act of following. \ldblquote What\rquote s wrong now?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Hold on!\rdblquote  Powell\rquote s breathing was rough and irregular in Donovan\rquote s ears. \ldblquote Mike! Do you hear me, Mike?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m right here. What is it?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We\rquote re blocked in. It wasn\rquote t the ceiling coming down fifty feet away that knocked us over. It was our own ceiling. The shock\rquote s tumbled it!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What!\rdblquote  Donovan scrambled up against a hard barrier. \ldblquote Turn on the flash.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell did so. At no point was there room for a rabbit to squeeze through.\par
\tab Donovan said softly, \ldblquote Well, what do you know?\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab They wasted a few moments and some muscular power in an effort to move the blocking barrier. Powell varied this by wrenching at the edges of the original hole. For a moment, Powell lifted his blaster. But in those close quarters, a flash would be suicide and he knew it. He sat down.\par
\tab\ldblquote You know, Mike,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote we\rquote ve really messed this up. We are no nearer finding out what\rquote s wrong with Dave. It was a good idea but it blew up in our face.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan\rquote s glance was bitter with an intensity totally wasted on the darkness, \ldblquote I hate to disturb you, old man, but quite apart from what we know or don\rquote t know of Dave, we\rquote re slightly trapped. If we don\rquote t get loose, fella, we\rquote re going to die. D-I-E, die. How much oxygen have we anyway? Not more than six hours.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ve thought of that.\rdblquote  Powell\rquote s fingers went up to his long-suffering mustache and clanged uselessly against the transparent visor. \ldblquote Of course, we could get Dave to dig us out easily in that time, except that our precious emergency must have thrown him off, and his radio circuit is out.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And isn\rquote t that nice?\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan edged up to the opening and managed to get his metal incased head out. It was an extremely tight fit.\par
\tab\ldblquote Hey, Greg!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Suppose we get Dave within twenty feet. He\rquote ll snap to normal. That will save us.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Sure, but where is he?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Down the corridor -- way down. For Pete\rquote s sake, stop pulling before you drag my head out of its socket. I\rquote ll give you your chance to look.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell maneuvered his head outside, \ldblquote We did it all right. Look at those saps. That must be a ballet they\rquote re doing.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Never mind the side remarks. Are they getting any closer?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Can\rquote t tell yet. They\rquote re too far away. Give me a chance. Pass me my flash, will you? I\rquote ll try to attract their attention that way.\rdblquote\par
\tab He gave up after two minutes, \ldblquote Not a chance! They must be blind. Uh-oh, they\rquote re starting toward us. What do you know?\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan said, \ldblquote Hey, let me see!\rdblquote\par
\tab There was a silent scuffle. Powell said, \ldblquote All right!\rdblquote  and Donovan got his head out.\par
\tab They were approaching. Dave was high-stepping the way in front and the six \ldblquote fingers\rdblquote  were a weaving chorus line behind him.\par
\tab Donovan marveled, \ldblquote What are they doing? That\rquote s what I want to know. It looks like the Virginia reel -- and Dave\rquote s a major-domo, or I never saw one.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, leave me alone with your descriptions,\rdblquote  grumbled Powell. \ldblquote How near are they?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Within fifty feet and coming this way. We\rquote ll be out in fifteen min--Uh-huh-HUH-HEY-Y!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What\rquote s going on?\rdblquote  It took Powell several seconds to recover from his stunned astonishment at Donovan\rquote s vocal gyrations. \ldblquote Come on, give me a chance at that hole. Don\rquote t be a hog about it.\rdblquote\par
\tab He fought his way upward, but Donovan kicked wildly, \ldblquote They did an about-face, Greg. They\rquote re leaving. Dave! Hey, Da-a ave!\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell shrieked, \ldblquote What\rquote s the use of that, you fool? Sound won\rquote t carry.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, then,\rdblquote  panted Donovan, \ldblquote kick the walls, slam them, get some vibration started. We\rquote ve got to attract their attention somehow, Greg, or we\rquote re through. \ldblquote  He pounded like a madman.\par
\tab Powell shook him, \ldblquote Wait, Mike, wait. Listen, I\rquote ve got an idea. Jumping Jupiter, this is a fine time to get around to the simple solutions. Mike!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What do you want?\rdblquote  Donovan pulled his head in.\par
\tab\ldblquote Let me in there fast before they get out of range.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Out of range! What are you going to do? Hey, what are you going to do with that detonator?\rdblquote  He grabbed Powell\rquote s arm.\par
\tab Powell shook off the grip violently. \ldblquote I\rquote m going to do a little shooting.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s for later. Let\rquote s see if it works first. If it doesn\rquote t, then -- Get out of the way and let me shoot!\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab The robots were flickers, small and getting smaller, in the distance. Powell lined up the sights tensely, and pulled the trigger three times. He lowered the guns and peered anxiously. One of the subsidiaries was down! There were only six gleaming figures now.\par
\tab Powell called into his transmitter uncertainly. \ldblquote Dave!\rdblquote\par
\tab A pause, then the answer sounded to both men, \ldblquote Boss? Where are you? My third subsidiary has had his chest blown in. He\rquote s out of commission.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Never mind your subsidiary,\rdblquote  said Powell. \ldblquote We\rquote re trapped in a cave-in where you were blasting. Can you see our flashlight?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Sure. We\rquote ll be right there.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell sat back and relaxed, \ldblquote That, my fran\rquote , is that\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan said very softly with tears in his voice, \ldblquote All right, Greg. You win. I beat my forehead against the ground before your feet. Now don\rquote t feed me any bull. Just tell me quietly what it\rquote s all about.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Easy. It\rquote s just that all through we missed the obvious -- as usual. We knew it was the personal initiative circuit, and that it always happened during emergencies, but we kept looking for a specific order as the cause. Why should it be an order?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why not?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, look, why not a type of order. What type of order requires the most initiative? What type of order would occur almost always only in an emergency?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Don\rquote t ask me, dreg. Tell me!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m doing it! It\rquote s the six-way order. Under all ordinary conditions, one or more of the \lquote fingers\rquote  would be doing routine tasks requiring no close supervision -- in the sort of offhand way our bodies handle the routine walking motions. But in an emergency, all six subsidiaries must be mobilized immediately and simultaneously. Dave must handle six robots at a time and something gives. The rest was easy. Any decrease in initiative required, such as the arrival of humans, snaps him back. So I destroyed one of the robots. When I did, he was transmitting only five-way orders. Initiative decreases -- he\rquote s normal\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote How did you get all that?\rdblquote  demanded Donovan.\par
\tab\ldblquote Just logical guessing. I tried it and it worked.\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot\rquote s voice was in their ears again, \ldblquote Here I am. Can you hold out half an hour?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Easy!\rdblquote  said Powell. Then, to Donovan, he continued, \ldblquote And now the job should be simple. We\rquote ll go through the circuits, and check off each part that gets an extra workout in a six-way order as against a five-way. How big a field does that leave us?\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan considered, \ldblquote Not much, I think. If Dave is like the preliminary model we saw back at the factory, there\rquote s a special coordinating circuit that would be the only section involved.\rdblquote  He cheered up suddenly and amazingly, \ldblquote Say, that wouldn\rquote t be bad at all. There\rquote s nothing to that.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote All right. You think it over and we\rquote ll check the blueprints when we get back. And now, till Daves reaches us, I\rquote m relaxing.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Hey, wait! Just tell me one thing. What were those queer shifting marches, those funny dance steps, that the robots went through every time they went screwy?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That? I don\rquote t know. But I\rquote ve got a notion. Remember, those subsidiaries were Dave\rquote s \lquote fingers.\rquote  We were always saying that, you know. Well, it\rquote s my idea that in all these interludes, whenever Dave became a psychiatric case, he went off into a moronic maze, spending his time \i twiddling his fingers\i0 .\rdblquote\par
\f3\fs18\par
\f0\fs20\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\b\i\f2\fs28\page Susan Calvin\par
\pard\b0\i0\f0\fs20\par
\tab The third robot story I wrote, \ldblquote Liar!\rdblquote  introduced Susan Calvin--with whom I promptly fell in love.  She so dominated my thoughts thereafter that, little by little, she ousted Powell and Donovan from their position.  Those two appeared only in the three stories included in the previous section, and in a forth, \ldblquote Escape!\rdblquote  in which they appear with Susan Calvin.\par
\tab Somehow the impression I get as I look back on my career is that I must have included dear Susan in innumerable stories, but the fact is that she appeared in only ten stories, all of which are listed in this section.  In the tenth, \ldblquote Feminine Intuition,\rdblquote  she emerges from retirement as an old lady who, however, has lost none of her acid charm.\par
\tab You will note, by the way, that although most of the Susan Calvin stories were written at a time when male chauvinism was taken for granted in science fiction, Susan asks no favors and beats the men at their own game.  To be sure, she remains sexually unfulfilled--but you can\rquote t have everything.\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Liar!\par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\scaps Alfred Lanning lit his cigar carefully, but\scaps0  the tips of his fingers were trembling slightly. His gray eyebrows hunched low as he spoke between puffs.\par
\tab\ldblquote It reads minds all right-damn little doubt about that! But why?\rdblquote  He looked at Mathematician Peter Bogert, \ldblquote Well?\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert flattened his black hair down with both hands, \ldblquote That was the thirty-fourth RB model we\rquote ve turned out, Lanning. All the others were strictly orthodox.\rdblquote\par
\tab The third man at the table frowned. Milton Ashe was the youngest officer of U. S. Robot & Mechanical Men, Inc., and proud of his post.\par
\tab\ldblquote Listen, Bogert. There wasn\rquote t a hitch in the assembly from start to finish. I guarantee that.\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert\rquote s thick lips spread in a patronizing smile, \ldblquote Do you? If you can answer for the entire assembly line, I recommend your promotion. By exact count, there are seventy-five thousand, two hundred and thirty-four operations necessary for the manufacture of a single positronic brain, each separate operation depending for successful completion upon any number of factors, from five to a hundred and five. If any one of them goes seriously wrong, the \lquote brain\rquote  is ruined. I quote our own information folder, Ashe.\rdblquote\par
\tab Milton Ashe flushed, but a fourth voice cut off his reply.\par
\tab\ldblquote If we\rquote re going to start by trying to fix the blame on one another, I\rquote m leaving.\rdblquote  Susan Calvin\rquote s hands were folded tightly in her lap, and the little lines about her thin, pale lips deepened, \ldblquote We\rquote ve got a mind-reading robot on our hands and it strikes me as rather important that we find out just why it reads minds. We\rquote re not going to do that by saying, \lquote Your fault! My fault!\rquote  \ldblquote\par
\tab Her cold gray eyes fastened upon Ashe, and he grinned.\par
\tab Lanning grinned too, and, as always at such times, his long white hair and shrewd little eyes made him the picture of a biblical patriarch, \ldblquote True for you, Dr. Calvin.\rdblquote\par
\tab His voice became suddenly crisp, \ldblquote Here\rquote s everything in pill-concentrate form. We\rquote ve produced a positronic brain of supposedly ordinary vintage that\rquote s got the remarkable property of being able to tune in on thought waves. It would mark the most important advance in robotics in decades, if we knew how it happened. We don\rquote t, and we have to find out. Is that clear?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote May I make a suggestion?\rdblquote  asked Bogert.\par
\tab\ldblquote Go ahead!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote d say that until we do figure out the mess -- and as a mathematician I expect it to be a very devil of a mess -- we keep the existence of RD-34 a secret. I mean even from the other members of the staff. As heads of the departments, we ought not to find it an insoluble problem, and the fewer know about it-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Bogert is right,\rdblquote  said Dr. Calvin. \ldblquote Ever since the Interplanetary Code was modified to allow robot models to be tested in the plants before being shipped out to space, antirobot propaganda has increased. If any word leaks out about a robot being able to read minds before we can announce complete control of the phenomenon, pretty effective capital could be made out of it.\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning sucked at his cigar and nodded gravely. He turned to Ashe; \ldblquote I think you said you were alone when you first stumbled on this thought-reading business.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ll say I was alone -- I got the scare of my life. RB-34 had just been taken off the assembly table and they sent him down to me. Obermann was off somewheres, so I took him down to the testing rooms myself -- at least I started to take him down.\rdblquote  Ashe paused, and a tiny smile tugged at his lips, \ldblquote Say, did any of you ever carry on a thought conversation without knowing it?\rdblquote\par
\tab No one bothered to answer, and he continued, \ldblquote You don\rquote t realize it at first, you know. He just spoke to me -- as logically and sensibly as you can imagine -- and it was only when I was most of the way down to the testing rooms that I realized that I hadn\rquote t said anything. Sure, I thought lots, but that isn\rquote t the same thing, is it? I locked that thing up and ran for Lanning. Having it walking beside me, calmly peering into my thoughts and picking and choosing among them gave me the willies.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I imagine it would,\rdblquote  said Susan Calvin thoughtfully. Her eyes fixed themselves upon Ashe in an oddly intent manner. \ldblquote We are so accustomed to considering our own thoughts private.\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning broke in impatiently, \ldblquote Then only the four of us know. All right! We\rquote ve got to go about this systematically. Ashe, I want you to check over the assembly line from beginning to end --everything. You\rquote re to eliminate all operations in which there was no possible chance of an error, and list all those where there were, together with its nature and possible magnitude.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Tall order,\rdblquote  grunted Ashe.\par
\tab\ldblquote Naturally! Of course, you\rquote re to put the men under you to work on this  -- every single one if you have to, and I don\rquote t care if we go behind schedule, either. But they\rquote re not to know why, you understand.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Hm-m-m, yes!\rdblquote  The young technician grinned wryly. \ldblquote It\rquote s still a lulu of a job.\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning swiveled about in his chair and faced Calvin, \ldblquote You\rquote ll have to tackle the job from the other direction. You\rquote re the robo-psychologist of the plant, so you\rquote re to study the robot itself and work backward. Try to find out how he ticks. See what else is tied up with his telepathic powers, how far they extend, how they warp his outlook, and just exactly what harm it has done to his ordinary RB properties. You\rquote ve got that?\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning didn\rquote t wait for Dr. Calvin to answer.\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ll co-ordinate the work and interpret the findings mathematically.\rdblquote  He puffed violently at his cigar and mumbled the rest through the smoke; \ldblquote Bogert will help me there, of course.\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert polished the nails of one pudgy hand with the other and said blandly, \ldblquote I dare say. I know a little in the line.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well! I\rquote ll get started.\rdblquote  Ashe shoved his chair back and rose. His pleasantly youthful face crinkled in a grin, \ldblquote I\rquote ve got the darnedest job of any of us, so I\rquote m getting out of here and to work.\rdblquote\par
\tab He left with a slurred, \ldblquote B\rquote  seein\rquote  ye!\rdblquote\par
\tab Susan Calvin answered with a barely perceptible nod, but her eyes followed him out of sight and she did not answer when Lanning grunted and said, \ldblquote Do you want to go up and see RB-34 now, Dr. Calvin?\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab RB-34\rquote s photoelectric eyes lifted from the book at the muffled sound of binges turning and he was upon his feet when Susan Calvin entered.\par
\tab She paused to readjust the huge \ldblquote No Entrance\rdblquote  sign upon the door and then approached the robot.\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ve brought you the texts upon hyperatomic motors, Herbie -- a few anyway. Would you care to look at them?\rdblquote\par
\tab RB-34 -- otherwise known as Herbie -- lifted the three heavy books from her arms and opened to the title page of one:\par
\tab\ldblquote Hm-m-m! \lquote Theory of Hyperatomics.\rquote  \ldblquote  He mumbled inarticulately to himself as he flipped the pages and then spoke with an abstracted air, \ldblquote Sit down, Dr. Calvin! This will take me a few minutes.\rdblquote\par
\tab The psychologist seated herself and watched Herbie narrowly as he took a chair at the other side of the table and went through the three books systematically.\par
\tab At the end of half an hour, he put them down, \ldblquote Of course, I know why you brought these.\rdblquote\par
\tab The corner of Dr. Calvin\rquote s lip twitched, \ldblquote I was afraid you would. It\rquote s difficult to work with you, Herbie. You\rquote re always a step ahead of me.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s the same with these books, you know, as with the others. They just don\rquote t interest me. There\rquote s nothing to your textbooks. Your science is just a mass of collected data plastered together by makeshift theory -- and all so incredibly simple, that it\rquote s scarcely worth bothering about.\par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s your fiction that interests me. Your studies of the interplay of human motives and emotions\rdblquote  -- his mighty hand gestured vaguely as he sought the proper words.\par
\tab Dr. Calvin whispered, \ldblquote I think I understand.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I see into minds, you see,\rdblquote  the robot continued, \ldblquote and you have no idea how complicated they are. I can\rquote t begin to understand everything because my own mind has so little in common with them -- but I try, and your novels help.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, but I\rquote m afraid that after going through some of the harrowing emotional experiences of our present-day sentimental novel\rdblquote  -- there was a tinge of bitterness in her voice -- \ldblquote you find real minds like ours dull and colorless.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But I don\rquote t!\rdblquote\par
\tab The sudden energy in the response brought the other to her feet. She felt herself reddening, and thought wildly, \ldblquote He must know!\rdblquote\par
\tab Herbie subsided suddenly, and muttered in a low voice from which the metallic timbre departed almost entirely. \ldblquote But, of course, I know about it, Dr. Calvin. You think of it always, so how can I help but know?\rdblquote\par
\tab Her face was hard. \ldblquote Have you -- told anyone?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Of course not!\rdblquote  This, with genuine surprise, \ldblquote No one has asked me.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, then,\rdblquote  she flung out, \ldblquote I suppose you think I am a fool.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No! It is a normal emotion.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Perhaps that is why it is so foolish.\rdblquote  The wistfulness in her voice drowned out everything else. Some of the woman peered through the layer of doctorhood. \ldblquote I am not what you would call -- attractive.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote If you are referring to mere physical attraction, I couldn\rquote t judge. But I know, in any case, that there are other types of attraction.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Nor young.\rdblquote  Dr. Calvin had scarcely heard the robot.\par
\tab\ldblquote You are not yet forty.\rdblquote  An anxious insistence had crept into Herbie\rquote s voice.\par
\tab\ldblquote Thirty-eight as you count the years; a shriveled sixty as far as my emotional outlook on life is concerned. Am I a psychologist for nothing?\rdblquote\par
\tab She drove on with bitter breathlessness, \ldblquote And he\rquote s barely thirty-five and looks and acts younger. Do you suppose he ever sees me as anything but... but what I am?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You are wrong!\rdblquote  Herbie\rquote s steel fist struck the plastic-topped table with a strident clang. \ldblquote Listen to me-\rdblquote\par
\tab But Susan Calvin whirled on him now and the hunted pain in her eyes became a blaze, \ldblquote Why should I? What do you know about it all, anyway, you... you machine. I\rquote m just a specimen to you; an interesting bug with a peculiar mind spread-eagled for inspection. It\rquote s a wonderful example of frustration, isn\rquote t it? Almost as good as your books.\rdblquote  Her voice, emerging in dry sobs, choked into silence.\par
\tab The robot cowered at the outburst. He shook his head pleadingly. \ldblquote Won\rquote t you listen to me, please? I could help you if you would let me.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote How?\rdblquote  Her lips curled. \ldblquote By giving me good advice?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, not that. It\rquote s just that I know what other people think -- Milton Ashe, for instance.\rdblquote\par
\tab There was a long silence, and Susan Calvin\rquote s eyes dropped. \ldblquote I don\rquote t want to know what he thinks,\rdblquote  she gasped. \ldblquote Keep quiet.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I think you would want to know what he thinks\rdblquote\par
\tab Her head remained bent, but her breath came more quickly. \ldblquote You are talking nonsense,\rdblquote  she whispered.\par
\tab\ldblquote Why should I? I am trying to help. Milton Ashe\rquote s thoughts of you-\rdblquote  he paused.\par
\tab And then the psychologist raised her head, \ldblquote Well?\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot said quietly, \ldblquote He loves you.\rdblquote\par
\tab For a full minute, Dr. Calvin did not speak. She merely stared. Then, \ldblquote You are mistaken! You must be. Why should he?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But he does. A thing like that cannot be hidden, not from me.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But I am so... so-\rdblquote  she stammered to a halt.\par
\tab\ldblquote He looks deeper than the skin, and admires intellect in others. Milton Ashe is not the type to marry a head of hair and a pair of eyes.\rdblquote\par
\tab Susan Calvin found herself blinking rapidly and waited before speaking. Even then her voice trembled, \ldblquote Yet he certainly never in any way indicated-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Have you ever given him a chance?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote How could I? I never thought that-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Exactly!\rdblquote\par
\tab The psychologist paused in thought and then looked up suddenly. \ldblquote A girl visited him here at the plant half a year ago. She was pretty, I suppose -- blond and slim. And, of course, could scarcely add two and two. He spent all day puffing out his chest, trying to explain how a robot was put together.\rdblquote  The hardness had returned, \ldblquote Not that she understood! Who was she?\rdblquote\par
\tab Herbie answered without hesitation, \ldblquote I know the person you are referring to. She is his first cousin, and there is no romantic interest there, I assure you.\rdblquote\par
\tab Susan Calvin rose to her feet with a vivacity almost girlish. \ldblquote Now isn\rquote t that strange? That\rquote s exactly what I used to pretend to myself sometimes, though I never really thought so. Then it all must be true.\rdblquote\par
\tab She ran to Herbie and seized his cold, heavy hand in both hers. \ldblquote Thank you, Herbie.\rdblquote  Her voice was an urgent, husky whisper. \ldblquote Don\rquote t tell anyone about this. Let it be our secret -- and thank you again.\rdblquote  With that, and a convulsive squeeze of Herbie\rquote s unresponsive metal fingers, she left.\par
\tab Herbie turned slowly to his neglected novel, but there was no one to read \i his\i0  thoughts.\par
\par
\tab Milton Ashe stretched slowly and magnificently, to the tune of cracking joints and a chorus of grunts, and then glared at Peter Bogert, Ph.D.\par
\tab\ldblquote Say,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote I\rquote ve been at this for a week now with just about no sleep. How long do I have to keep it up? I thought you said the positronic bombardment in Vac Chamber D was the solution.\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert yawned delicately and regarded his white hands with interest. \ldblquote It is. I\rquote m on the track.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I know what \i that\i0  means when a mathematician says it. How near the end are you?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It all depends.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote On what?\rdblquote  Ashe dropped into a chair and stretched his long legs out before him.\par
\tab\ldblquote On Lanning. The old fellow disagrees with me.\rdblquote  He sighed, \ldblquote A bit behind the times, that\rquote s the trouble with him. He clings to matrix mechanics as the all in all, and this problem calls for more powerful mathematical tools. He\rquote s so stubborn.\rdblquote\par
\tab Ashe muttered sleepily, \ldblquote Why not ask Herbie and settle the whole affair?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Ask the robot?\rdblquote  Bogert\rquote s eyebrows climbed.\par
\tab\ldblquote Why not? Didn\rquote t the old girl tell you?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You mean Calvin?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yeah! Susie herself. That robot\rquote s a mathematical wiz. He knows all about everything plus a bit on the side. He does triple integrals in his head and eats up tensor analysis for dessert.\rdblquote\par
\tab The mathematician stared skeptically, \ldblquote Are you serious?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote So help me! The catch is that the dope doesn\rquote t like math. He would rather read slushy novels. Honest! You should see the tripe Susie keeps feeding him: \lquote Purple Passion\rquote  and \lquote Love in Space.\rquote  \ldblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Dr. Calvin hasn\rquote t said a word of this to us.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, she hasn\rquote t finished studying him. You know how she is. She likes to have everything just so before letting out the big secret.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote She\rquote s told \i you\i0 .\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We sort of got to talking. I have been seeing a lot of her lately.\rdblquote  He opened his eyes wide and frowned, \ldblquote Say, Bogie, have you been noticing anything queer about the lady lately?\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert relaxed into an undignified grin, \ldblquote She\rquote s using lipstick, if that\rquote s what you mean.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Hell, I know that. Rouge, powder and eye shadow, too. She\rquote s a sight. But it\rquote s not that. I can\rquote t put my finger on it. It\rquote s the way she talks -- as if she were happy about something.\rdblquote  He thought a little, and then shrugged.\par
\tab The other allowed himself a leer, which, for a scientist past fifty, was not a bad job, \ldblquote Maybe she\rquote s in love.\rdblquote\par
\tab Ashe allowed his eyes to close again, \ldblquote You\rquote re nuts, Bogie. You go speak to Herbie; I want to stay here and go to sleep.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Right! Not that I particularly like having a robot tell me my job, nor that I think he can do it!\rdblquote\par
\tab A soft snore was his only answer.\par
\par
\tab Herbie listened carefully as Peter Bogert, hands in pockets, spoke with elaborate indifference.\par
\tab\ldblquote So there you are. I\rquote ve been told you understand these things, and I am asking you more in curiosity than anything else. My line of reasoning, as I have outlined it, involves a few doubtful steps, I admit, which Dr. Lanning refuses to accept, and the picture is still rather incomplete.\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot didn\rquote t answer, and Bogert said, \ldblquote Well?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I see no mistake,\rdblquote  Herbie studied the scribbled figures.\par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t suppose you can go any further than that?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I daren\rquote t try. You are a better mathematician than I, and -- well, I\rquote d hate to commit myself.\rdblquote\par
\tab There was a shade of complacency in Bogert\rquote s smile, \ldblquote I rather thought that would be the case. It is deep. We\rquote ll forget it.\rdblquote  He crumpled the sheets, tossed them down the waste shaft, turned to leave, and then thought better of it.\par
\tab\ldblquote By the way-\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot waited.\par
\tab Bogert seemed to have difficulty. \ldblquote There is something -- that is, perhaps you can --\rdblquote  He stopped.\par
\tab Herbie spoke quietly. \ldblquote Your thoughts are confused, but there is no doubt at all that they concern Dr. Lanning. It is silly to hesitate, for as soon as you compose yourself, I\rquote ll know what it is you want to ask.\rdblquote\par
\tab The mathematician\rquote s hand went to his sleek hair in the familiar smoothing gesture. \ldblquote Lanning is nudging seventy,\rdblquote  he said, as if that explained everything.\par
\tab\ldblquote I know that.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And he\rquote s been director of the plant for almost thirty years.\rdblquote  Herbie nodded.\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, now,\rdblquote  Bogert\rquote s voice became ingratiating, \ldblquote you would know whether... whether he\rquote s thinking of resigning. Health, perhaps, or some other-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Quite,\rdblquote  said Herbie, and that was all.\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, do you know?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Certainly.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then-uh-could you tell me?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Since you ask, yes.\rdblquote  The robot was quite matter-of-fact about it. \ldblquote He has already resigned!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What!\rdblquote  The exclamation was an explosive, almost inarticulate, sound. The scientist\rquote s large head hunched forward, \ldblquote Say that again!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote He has already resigned,\rdblquote  came the quiet repetition, \ldblquote but it has not yet taken effect. He is waiting, you see, to solve the problem of -- er -- myself. That finished, he is quite ready to turn the office of director over to his successor.\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert expelled his breath sharply, \ldblquote And this successor? Who is he?\rdblquote  He was quite close to Herbie now, eyes fixed fascinatedly on those unreadable dull-red photoelectric cells that were the robot\rquote s eyes.\par
\tab Words came slowly, \ldblquote You are the next director.\rdblquote\par
\tab And Bogert relaxed into a tight smile, \ldblquote This is good to know. I\rquote ve been hoping and waiting for this. Thanks, Herbie.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Peter Bogert was at his desk until five that morning and he was back at nine. The shelf just over the desk emptied of its row of reference books and tables, as he referred to one after the other. The pages of calculations before him increased microscopically and the crumpled sheets at his feet mounted into a hill of scribbled paper.\par
\tab At precisely noon, he stared at the final page, rubbed a blood-shot eye, yawned and shrugged. \ldblquote This is getting worse each minute. Damn!\rdblquote\par
\tab He turned at the sound of the opening door and nodded at Lanning, who entered, cracking the knuckles of one gnarled hand with the other.\par
\tab The director took in the disorder of the room and his eyebrows furrowed together.\par
\tab\ldblquote New lead?\rdblquote  he asked.\par
\tab\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  came the defiant answer. \ldblquote What\rquote s wrong with the old one?\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning did not trouble to answer, nor to do more than bestow a single cursory glance at the top sheet upon Bogert\rquote s desk. He spoke through the flare of a match as he lit a cigar.\par
\tab\ldblquote Has Calvin told you about the robot? It\rquote s a mathematical genius. Really remarkable.\rdblquote\par
\tab The other snorted loudly, \ldblquote So I\rquote ve heard. But Calvin had better stick to robopsychology. I\rquote ve checked Herbie on math, and he can scarcely struggle through calculus.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Calvin didn\rquote t find it so.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote She\rquote s crazy.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And I don\rquote t find it so.\rdblquote  The director\rquote s eyes narrowed dangerously.\par
\tab\ldblquote You!\rdblquote  Bogert\rquote s voice hardened. \ldblquote What are you talking about?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ve been putting Herbie through his paces all morning, and he can do tricks you never heard of.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Is that so?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You sound skeptical!\rdblquote  Lanning flipped a sheet of paper out of his vest pocket and unfolded it. \ldblquote That\rquote s not my handwriting, is it?\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert studied the large angular notation covering the sheet, \ldblquote Herbie did this?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Right! And if you\rquote ll notice, he\rquote s been working on your time integration of Equation 22. It comes\rdblquote  -- Lanning tapped a yellow fingernail upon the last step -- \ldblquote to the identical conclusion I did, and in a quarter the time. You had no right to neglect the Linger Effect in positronic bombardment.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I didn\rquote t neglect it. For Heaven\rquote s sake, Lanning, get it through your head that it would cancel out-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, sure, you explained that. You used the Mitchell Translation Equation, didn\rquote t you? Well -- it doesn\rquote t apply.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why not?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Because you\rquote ve been using hyper-imaginaries, for one thing.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What\rquote s that to do with?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Mitchell\rquote s Equation won\rquote t hold when-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Are you crazy? If you\rquote ll reread Mitchell\rquote s original paper in the \i Transactions of the Far\i0 -\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t have to. I told you in the beginning that I didn\rquote t like his reasoning, and Herbie backs me in that.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, then,\rdblquote  Bogert shouted, \ldblquote let that clockwork contraption solve the entire problem for you. Why bother with nonessentials?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s exactly the point. Herbie can\rquote t solve the problem. And if he can\rquote t, we can\rquote t -- alone. I\rquote m submitting the entire question to the National Board. It\rquote s gotten beyond us.\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert\rquote s chair went over backward as he jumped up a-snarl, face crimson. \ldblquote You\rquote re doing nothing of the sort.\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning flushed in his turn, \ldblquote Are you telling me what I can\rquote t do?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Exactly,\rdblquote  was the gritted response. \ldblquote I\rquote ve got the problem beaten and you\rquote re not to take it out of my hands, understand? Don\rquote t think I don\rquote t see through you, you desiccated fossil. You\rquote d cut your own nose off before you\rquote d let me get the credit for solving robotic telepathy.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote re a damned idiot, Bogert, and in one second I\rquote ll have you suspended for insubordination\rdblquote  -- Lanning\rquote s lower lip trembled with passion.\par
\tab\ldblquote Which is one thing you won\rquote t do, Lanning. You haven\rquote t any secrets with a mind-reading robot around, so don\rquote t forget that I know all about your resignation.\rdblquote\par
\tab The ash on Lanning\rquote s cigar trembled and fell, and the cigar itself followed, \ldblquote What... what-\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert chuckled nastily, \ldblquote And I\rquote m the new director, be it understood. I\rquote m very aware of that, don\rquote t think I\rquote m not. Damn your eyes, Lanning, I\rquote m going to give the orders about here or there will be the sweetest mess that you\rquote ve ever been in.\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning found his voice and let it out with a roar. \ldblquote You\rquote re suspended, d\rquote ye hear? You\rquote re relieved of all duties. You\rquote re broken, do you understand?\rdblquote\par
\tab The smile on the other\rquote s face broadened, \ldblquote Now, what\rquote s the use of that? You\rquote re getting nowhere. I\rquote m holding the trumps. I know you\rquote ve resigned. Herbie told me, and he got it straight from you.\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning forced himself to speak quietly. He looked an old, old man, with tired eyes peering from a face in which the red had disappeared, leaving the pasty yellow of age behind, \ldblquote I want to speak to Herbie. He can\rquote t have told you anything of the sort. You\rquote re playing a deep game, Bogert, but I\rquote m calling your bluff. Come with me.\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert shrugged, \ldblquote To see Herbie? Good! Damned good!\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab It was also precisely at noon that Milton Ashe looked up from his clumsy sketch and said, \ldblquote You get the idea? I\rquote m not too good at getting this down, but that\rquote s about how it looks. It\rquote s a honey of a house, and I can get it for next to nothing.\rdblquote\par
\tab Susan Calvin gazed across at him with melting eyes. \ldblquote It\rquote s really beautiful,\rdblquote  she sighed. \ldblquote I\rquote ve often thought that I\rquote d like to-\rdblquote  Her voice trailed away.\par
\tab\ldblquote Of course,\rdblquote  Ashe continued briskly, putting away his pencil, \ldblquote I\rquote ve got to wait for my vacation. It\rquote s only two weeks off, but this Herbie business has everything up in the air.\rdblquote  His eyes dropped to his fingernails, \ldblquote Besides, there\rquote s another point -- but it\rquote s a secret.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then don\rquote t tell me.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, I\rquote d just as soon, I\rquote m just busting to tell someone -- and you\rquote re just about the best -er- confidante I could find here.\rdblquote  He grinned sheepishly.\par
\tab Susan Calvin\rquote s heart bounded, but she did not trust herself to speak.\par
\tab\ldblquote Frankly,\rdblquote  Ashe scraped his chair closer and lowered his voice into a confidential whisper, \ldblquote the house isn\rquote t to be only for myself. I\rquote m getting married!\rdblquote\par
\tab And then he jumped out of his seat, \ldblquote What\rquote s the matter?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Nothing!\rdblquote  The horrible spinning sensation had vanished, but it was hard to get words out. \ldblquote Married? You mean-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why, sure! About time, isn\rquote t it? You remember that girl who was here last summer. That\rquote s she! But you \i are\i0  sick. You-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Headache!\rdblquote  Susan Calvin motioned him away weakly. \ldblquote I\rquote ve... I\rquote ve been subject to them lately. I want to... to congratulate you, of course. I\rquote m very glad-\rdblquote  The inexpertly applied rouge made a pair of nasty red splotches upon her chalk-white face. Things had begun spinning again. \ldblquote Pardon me -- please-\rdblquote\par
\tab The words were a mumble, as she stumbled blindly out the door. It had happened with the sudden catastrophe of a dream -- and with all the unreal horror of a dream.\par
\tab But how could it be? Herbie had said-\par
\tab And Herbie knew! He could see into minds!\par
\tab She found herself leaning breathlessly against the doorjamb, staring into Herbie\rquote s metal face. She must have climbed the two flights of stairs, but she had no memory of it. The distance had been covered in an instant, as in a dream.\par
\tab As in a dream!\par
\tab And still Herbie\rquote s unblinking eyes stared into hers and their dull red seemed to expand into dimly shining nightmarish globes.\par
\tab He was speaking, and she felt the cold glass pressing against her lips. She swallowed and shuddered into a pertain awareness of her surroundings.\par
\tab Still Herbie spoke, and there was agitation in his voice -- as if he were hurt and frightened and pleading.\par
\tab The words were beginning to make sense. \ldblquote This is a dream,\rdblquote  he was saying, \ldblquote and you mustn\rquote t believe in it. You\rquote ll wake into the real world soon and laugh at yourself. He loves you, I tell you. He does, he does! But not here! Not now! This is an illusion.\rdblquote\par
\tab Susan Calvin nodded, her voice a whisper, \ldblquote Yes! Yes!\rdblquote  She was clutching Herbie\rquote s arm, clinging to it, repeating over and over, \ldblquote It isn\rquote t true, is it? It isn\rquote t, is it?\rdblquote\par
\tab Just how she came to her senses, she never knew -- but it was like passing from a world of misty unreality to one of harsh sunlight. She pushed him away from her, pushed hard against that steely arm, and her eyes were wide.\par
\tab\ldblquote What are you trying to do?\rdblquote  Her voice rose to a harsh scream. \ldblquote What are you trying to do?\rdblquote\par
\tab Herbie backed away, \ldblquote I want to help\rdblquote\par
\tab The psychologist stared, \ldblquote Help? By telling me this is a dream? By trying to push me into schizophrenia?\rdblquote  A hysterical tenseness seized her, \ldblquote This is no dream! I wish it were!\rdblquote\par
\tab She drew her breath sharply, \ldblquote Wait! Why... why, I understand. Merciful Heavens, it\rquote s so obvious.\rdblquote\par
\tab There was horror in the robot\rquote s voice, \ldblquote I had to!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And I believed you! I never thought--\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Loud voices outside the door brought her to a halt. She turned away, fists clenching spasmodically, and when Bogert and Lanning entered, she was at the far window. Neither of the men paid her the slightest attention.\par
\tab They approached Herbie simultaneously; Lanning angry and impatient, Bogert, coolly sardonic. The director spoke first.\par
\tab\ldblquote Here now, Herbie. Listen to me!\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot brought his eyes sharply down upon the aged director, \ldblquote Yes, Dr. Lanning.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Have you discussed me with Dr. Bogert?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, sir.\rdblquote  The answer came slowly, and the smile on Bogert\rquote s face flashed off.\par
\tab\ldblquote What\rquote s that?\rdblquote  Bogert shoved in ahead of his superior and straddled the ground before the robot. \ldblquote Repeat what you told me yesterday.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I said that \ldblquote  Herbie fell silent. Deep within him his metallic diaphragm vibrated in soft discords.\par
\tab\ldblquote Didn\rquote t you say he had resigned?\rdblquote  roared Bogert. \ldblquote Answer me!\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert raised his arm frantically, but Lanning pushed him aside, \ldblquote Are you trying to bully him into lying?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You heard him, Lanning. He began to say \lquote Yes\rquote  and stopped. Get out of my way! I want the truth out of him, understand!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ll ask him!\rdblquote  Lanning turned to the robot. \ldblquote All right, Herbie, take it easy. Have I resigned?\rdblquote\par
\tab Herbie stared, and Lanning repeated anxiously, \ldblquote Have I resigned?\rdblquote  There was the faintest trace of a negative shake of the robot\rquote s head. A long wait produced nothing further.\par
\tab The two men looked at each other and the hostility in their eyes was all but tangible.\par
\tab\ldblquote What the devil,\rdblquote  blurted Bogert, \ldblquote has the robot gone mute? Can\rquote t you speak, you monstrosity?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I can speak,\rdblquote  came the ready answer.\par
\tab\ldblquote Then answer the question. Didn\rquote t you tell me Lanning had resigned? Hasn\rquote t he resigned?\rdblquote\par
\tab And again there was nothing but dull silence, until from the end of the room Susan Calvin\rquote s laugh rang out suddenly, high-pitched and semi-hysterical.\par
\tab The two mathematicians jumped, and Bogerts eyes narrowed, \ldblquote You here? What\rquote s so funny?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Nothing\rquote s funny.\rdblquote  Her voice was not quite natural. \ldblquote It\rquote s just that I\rquote m not the only one that\rquote s been caught. There\rquote s irony in three of the greatest experts in robotics in the world falling into the same elementary trap, isn\rquote t there?\rdblquote  Her voice faded, and she put a pale hand to her forehead, \ldblquote But it isn\rquote t funny!\rdblquote\par
\tab This time the look that passed between the two men was one of raised eyebrows. \ldblquote What trap are you talking about?\rdblquote  asked Lansing stiffly. \ldblquote Is something wrong with Herbie?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  she approached them slowly, \ldblquote nothing is wrong with him -- only with us.\rdblquote  She whirled suddenly and shrieked at the robot, \ldblquote Get away from me! Go to the other end of the room and don\rquote t let me look at you.\rdblquote\par
\tab Herbie cringed before the fury of her eyes and stumbled away in a clattering trot.\par
\tab Lanning\rquote s voice was hostile, \ldblquote What is all this, Dr. Calvin?\rdblquote\par
\tab She faced them and spoke sarcastically, \ldblquote Surely you know the fundamental First Law of Robotics.\rdblquote\par
\tab The other two nodded together. \ldblquote Certainly,\rdblquote  said Bogert, Irritably, \ldblquote a robot may not injure a human being or, through inaction, allow him to come to harm\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote How nicely put,\rdblquote  sneered Calvin. \ldblquote But what kind of harm?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why -- any kind.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Exactly! Any kind! But what about hurt feelings? What about deflation of one\rquote s ego? What about the blasting of one\rquote s hopes? Is that injury?\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning frowned, \ldblquote What would a robot know about-\rdblquote  And then he caught himself with a gasp.\par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote ve caught on, have you? \i This\i0  robot reads minds. Do you suppose it doesn\rquote t know everything about mental injury? Do you suppose that if asked a question, it wouldn\rquote t give exactly that answer that one wants to hear? Wouldn\rquote t any other answer hurt us, and wouldn\rquote t Herbie know that?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Good Heavens!\rdblquote  muttered Bogert.\par
\tab The psychologist cast a sardonic glance at him, \ldblquote I take it you asked him whether Lanning had resigned. You wanted to hear that he had resigned and so that\rquote s what Herbie told you.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And I suppose that is why,\rdblquote  said Lanning, tonelessly, \ldblquote it would not answer a little while ago. It couldn\rquote t answer either way without hurting one of us.\rdblquote\par
\tab There was a short pause in which the men looked thoughtfully across the room at the robot, crouching in the chair by the bookcase, head resting in one hand.\par
\tab Susan Calvin stared steadfastly at the floor, \ldblquote He knew of all this. That... that devil knows everything -- including what went wrong in his assembly.\rdblquote  Her eyes were dark and brooding.\par
\tab Lanning looked up, \ldblquote You\rquote re wrong there, Dr. Calvin. He doesn\rquote t know what went wrong. I asked him.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What does that mean?\rdblquote  cried Calvin. \ldblquote Only that you didn\rquote t want him to give you the solution. It would puncture your ego to have a machine do what you couldn\rquote t. Did you ask him?\rdblquote  she shot at Bogert.\par
\tab\ldblquote In a way.\rdblquote  Bogert coughed and reddened. \ldblquote He told me he knew very little about mathematics.\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning laughed, not very loudly and the psychologist smiled caustically. She said, \ldblquote I\rquote ll ask him! A solution by him won\rquote t hurt my ego\rdblquote  She raised her voice into a cold, imperative, \ldblquote Come here!\rdblquote\par
\tab Herbie rose and approached with hesitant steps.\par
\tab\ldblquote You know, I suppose,\rdblquote  she continued, \ldblquote just exactly at what point in the assembly an extraneous factor was introduced or an essential one left out.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  said Herbie, in tones barely heard.\par
\tab\ldblquote Hold on,\rdblquote  broke in Bogert angrily. \ldblquote That\rquote s not necessary true. You want to hear that, that\rquote s all.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Don\rquote t be a fool,\rdblquote  replied Calvin. \ldblquote He certainly knows as much math as you and Lanning together, since he can read minds. Give him his chance.\rdblquote\par
\tab The mathematician subsided, and Calvin continued, \ldblquote All right, then, Herbie, give! We\rquote re waiting.\rdblquote  And in an aside, \ldblquote Get pencils and paper, gentlemen.\rdblquote\par
\tab But Herbie remained silent, and there was triumph in the psychologist\rquote s voice, \ldblquote Why don\rquote t you answer, Herbie?\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot blurted out suddenly, \ldblquote I cannot. You know I cannot! Dr. Bogert and Dr. Lanning don\rquote t want me to.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote They want the solution.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But not from me.\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning broke in, speaking slowly and distinctly, \ldblquote Don\rquote t be foolish, Herbie. We do want you to tell us.\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert nodded curtly.\par
\tab Herbie\rquote s voice rose to wild heights, \ldblquote What\rquote s the use of saying that? Don\rquote t you suppose that I can see past the superficial skin of your mind? Down below, you don\rquote t want me to. I\rquote m a machine, given the imitation of life only by virtue of the positronic interplay in my brain -- which is man\rquote s device. You can\rquote t lose face to me without being hurt. That is deep in your mind and won\rquote t be erased. I can\rquote t give the solution.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We\rquote ll leave,\rdblquote  said Dr. Lanning. \ldblquote Tell Calvin.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That would make no difference,\rdblquote  cried Herbie, \ldblquote since you would know anyway that it was I that was supplying the answer.\rdblquote\par
\tab Calvin resumed, \ldblquote But you understand, Herbie, that despite that, Drs. Lanning and Bogert want that solution.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote By their own efforts!\rdblquote  insisted Herbie.\par
\tab\ldblquote But they want it, and the fact that you have it and won\rquote t give it hurts them. You see that, don\rquote t you?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes! Yes!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And if you tell them that will hurt them, too\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes! Yes!\rdblquote  Herbie was retreating slowly, and step-by-step Susan Calvin advanced. The two men watched in frozen bewilderment.\par
\tab\ldblquote You can\rquote t tell them,\rdblquote  droned the psychologist slowly, \ldblquote because that would hurt and you mustn\rquote t hurt. But if you don\rquote t tell them, you hurt, so you must tell them. And if you do, you will hurt and you mustn\rquote t, so you can\rquote t tell them; but if you don\rquote t, you hurt, so you must; but if you do, you hurt, so you mustn\rquote t; but if you don\rquote t, you hurt, so you must; but if you do, you-\rdblquote\par
\tab Herbie was up against the wall, and here he dropped to his knees. \ldblquote Stop!\rdblquote  he shrieked. \ldblquote Close your mind! It is full of pain and frustration and hate! I didn\rquote t mean it, I tell you! I tried to help! I told you what you wanted to hear. I had to!\rdblquote\par
\tab The psychologist paid no attention. \ldblquote You must tell them, but if you do, you hurt, so you mustn\rquote t; but if you don\rquote t, you hurt, so you must; but-\rdblquote\par
\tab And Herbie screamed!\par
\tab It was like the whistling of a piccolo many times magnified -- shrill and shriller till it keened with the terror of a lost soul and filled the room with the piercingness of itself.\par
\tab And when it died into nothingness, Herbie collapsed into a huddled heap of motionless metal.\par
\tab Bogert\rquote s face was bloodless, \ldblquote He\rquote s dead!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No!\rdblquote  Susan Calvin burst into body-racking gusts of wild laughter, \ldblquote not dead -- merely insane. I confronted him with the insoluble dilemma, and he broke down. You can scrap him now -- because he\rquote ll never speak again.\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning was on his knees beside the thing that had been Herbie. His fingers touched the cold, unresponsive metal face and he shuddered. \ldblquote You did that on purpose.\rdblquote  He rose and faced her, face contorted.\par
\tab\ldblquote What if I did? You can\rquote t help it now.\rdblquote  And in a sudden access of bitterness, \ldblquote He deserved it.\rdblquote\par
\tab The director seized the paralyzed, motionless Bogert by the wrist, \ldblquote What\rquote s the difference. Come, Peter.\rdblquote  He sighed, \ldblquote A thinking robot of this type is worthless anyway.\rdblquote  His eyes were old and tired, and he repeated, \ldblquote Come, Peter!\rdblquote\par
\tab It was minutes after the two scientists left that Dr. Susan Calvin regained part of her mental equilibrium. Slowly, her eyes turned to the living-dead Herbie and the tightness returned to her face. Long she stared while the triumph faded and the helpless frustration returned -- and of all her turbulent thoughts only one infinitely bitter word passed her lips.\par
\tab\ldblquote\i Liar!\i0\rdblquote\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Satisfaction Guaranteed\par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\tab Tony was tall and darkly handsome, with an incredibly patrician air drawn into every line of his unchangeable expression, and Claire Belmont regarded him through the crack in the door with a mixture of horror and dismay.\par
\tab\ldblquote I can\rquote t, Larry. I just can\rquote t have him in the house.\rdblquote  Feverishly, she was searching her paralyzed mind for a stronger way of putting it; some way that would make sense and settle things, but she could only end with a simple repetition.\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, I can\rquote t!\rdblquote\par
\tab Larry Belmont regarded his wife stiffly, and there was that spark of impa\-tience in his eyes that Claire hated to see, since she felt her own incompe\-tence mirrored in it. \ldblquote We\rquote re committed, Claire,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote and I can\rquote t have you backing out now. The company is sending me to Washington on this basis, and it probably means a promotion. It\rquote s perfectly safe and you know it. What\rquote s your objection?\rdblquote\par
\tab She frowned helplessly. \ldblquote It just gives me the chills. I couldn\rquote t bear him.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote He\rquote s as human as you or I, almost. So, no nonsense. Come, get out there.\rdblquote\par
\tab His hand was in the small of her back, shoving; and she found herself in her own living room, shivering. \i It\i0  was there, looking at her with a precise politeness, as though appraising his hostess-to-be of the next three weeks. Dr. Susan Calvin was there, too, sitting stiffly in thin-lipped abstraction. She had the cold, faraway look of someone who has worked with machines so long that a little of the steel had entered the blood.\par
\tab\ldblquote Hello,\rdblquote  crackled Claire in general, and ineffectual, greeting.\par
\tab But Larry was busily saving the situation with a spurious gaiety. \ldblquote Here, Claire, I want you to meet Tony, a swell guy. This is my wife, Claire, Tony, old boy.\rdblquote  Larry\rquote s hand draped itself amiably over Tony\rquote s shoulder, but Tony remained unresponsive and expressionless under the pressure.\par
\tab He said, \ldblquote How do you do, Mrs. Belmont.\rdblquote\par
\tab And Claire jumped at Tony\rquote s voice. It was deep and mellow, smooth as the hair on his head or the skin on his face.\par
\tab Before she could stop herself, she said, \ldblquote Oh, my--you talk.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why not? Did you expect that I didn\rquote t?\rdblquote\par
\tab But Claire could only smile weakly. She didn\rquote t really know what she had expected. She looked away, then let him slide gently into the comer of her eye. His hair was smooth and black, like polished plastic--or was it really composed of separate hairs? And was the even, olive skin of his hands and face continued on past the obscurement of his formally cut clothing?\par
\tab She was lost in the shuddering wonder of it, and had to force her thoughts back into place to meet Dr. Calvin\rquote s flat, unemotional voice.\par
\tab\ldblquote Mrs. Belmont, I hope you appreciate the importance of this experiment. Your husband tells me he has given you some of the background. I would like to give you more, as the senior psychologist of the U.S. Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation.\par
\tab\ldblquote Tony is a robot. His actual designation on the company files is TN-3, but he will answer to Tony. He \i is\i0  not a mechanical monster, nor simply a calculating machine of the type that were developed during World War II, fifty years ago. He has an artificial brain nearly as complicated as our own. It is an immense telephone switchboard on an atomic scale, so that billions of possible \lquote telephone connections\rquote  can be compressed into an instrument that will fit inside a skull.\par
\tab\ldblquote Such brains are manufactured for each model of robot specifically. Each contains a precalculated set of connections so that each robot knows the English language to start with and enough of anything else that may be necessary to perform his job.\par
\tab\ldblquote Until now, U.S. Robots has confined its manufacturing activity to indus\-trial models for use in places where human labor is impractical--in deep mines, for instance, or in underwater work. But we want to invade the city and the home. To do so, we must get the ordinary man and woman to accept these robots without fear. You understand that there is nothing to fear.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote There isn\rquote t, Claire,\rdblquote  interposed Larry earnestly. \ldblquote Take my word for it. It\rquote s impossible for him to do any harm. You know I wouldn\rquote t leave him with you otherwise.\rdblquote\par
\tab Claire cast a quick, secret glance at Tony and lowered her voice. \ldblquote What if I make him angry?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You needn\rquote t whisper,\rdblquote  said Dr. Calvin calmly. \ldblquote He \i can\rquote t\i0  get angry with you, my dear. I told you that the switchboard connections of his brain were predetermined. Well, the most important connection of all is what we call The First Law of Robotics,\rquote  and it is merely this: \lquote No robot can harm a human being, or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm.\rquote  All robots are built so. No robot can be forced in any way to do harm to any human. So, you see, we need you and Tony as a preliminary experiment for our own guidance, while your husband is in Washington to arrange for government-supervised legal tests.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You mean all this isn\rquote t legal?\rdblquote\par
\tab Larry cleared his throat. \ldblquote Not just yet, but it\rquote s all right. He won\rquote t leave the house, and you mustn\rquote t let anyone see him. That\rquote s all.... And, Claire, I\rquote d stay with you, but I know too much about the robots. We must have a completely inexperienced tester so that we can have severe condi\-tions. It\rquote s necessary.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, well,\rdblquote  muttered Claire. Then, as a thought struck her, \ldblquote But what does he do?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Housework,\rdblquote  said Dr. Calvin shortly.\par
\tab She got up to leave, and it was Larry who saw her to the front door. Claire stayed behind drearily. She caught a glimpse of herself in the mirror above the mantelpiece, and looked away hastily. She was very tired of her small, mousy face and her dim, unimaginative hair. Then she caught Tony\rquote s eyes upon her and almost smiled before she remembered....\par
\tab He was only a machine.\par
\par
\tab Larry Belmont was on his way to the airport when he caught a glimpse of Gladys Claffern. She was the type of woman who seemed made to be seen in glimpses.... Perfectly and precisely manufactured; dressed with thoughtful hand and eye; too gleaming to be stared at.\par
\tab The little smile that preceded her and the faint scent that trailed her were a pair of beckoning fingers. Larry felt his stride break; he touched his hat, then hurried on.\par
\tab As always he felt that vague anger. If Claire could only push her way into the Claffern clique, it would help so much. But what was the use.\par
\tab Claire! The few times she had come face to face with Gladys, the little fool had been tongue-tied. He had no illusions. The testing of Tony was his big chance, and it was in Claire\rquote s hands. How much safer it would be in the hands of someone like Gladys Claffern.\par
\par
\tab Claire woke the second morning to the sound of a subdued knock on the bedroom door. Her mind clamored, then went icy. She had avoided Tony the first day, smiling thinly when she met him and brushing past with a wordless sound of apology.\par
\tab\ldblquote Is that you--Tony?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, Mrs. Belmont. May I enter?\rdblquote\par
\tab She must have said yes, because he was in the room, quite suddenly and noiselessly. Her eyes and nose were simultaneously aware of the tray he was carrying.\par
\tab\ldblquote Breakfast?\rdblquote  she said.\par
\tab\ldblquote If you please.\rdblquote\par
\tab She wouldn\rquote t have dared to refuse, so she pushed herself slowly into a sitting position and received it: poached eggs, buttered toast, coffee.\par
\tab\ldblquote I have brought the sugar and cream separately,\rdblquote  said Tony. \ldblquote I expect to learn your preference with time, in this and in other things.\rdblquote\par
\tab She waited.\par
\tab Tony, standing there straight and pliant as a metal rule, asked, after a moment, \ldblquote Would you prefer to eat in privacy?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes.... I mean, if you don\rquote t mind.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Will you need help later in dressing?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, my, no!\rdblquote  She clutched frantically at the sheet, so that the coffee hovered at the edge of catastrophe. She remained so, in rigor, then sank helplessly back against the pillow when the door closed him out of her sight again.\par
\tab She got through breakfast somehow.... He was only a machine, and if it were only more visible that he were it wouldn\rquote t be so frightening. Or if his expression would change. It just stayed there, nailed on. You couldn\rquote t tell what went on behind those dark eyes and that smooth, olive skin-stuff. The coffee cup beat a faint castanet for a moment as she set it back, empty, on the tray.\par
\tab Then she realized that she had forgotten to add the sugar and cream after all, and she did so hate black coffee.\par
\par
\tab She burned a straight path from bedroom to kitchen after dressing. It was her house, after all, and there wasn\rquote t anything frippy about her, but she liked her kitchen clean. He should have waited for supervision....\par
\tab But when she entered, she found a kitchen that might have been minted fire-new from the factory the moment before.\par
\tab She stopped, stared, turned on her heel and nearly ran into Tony. She yelped.\par
\tab\ldblquote May I help?\rdblquote  he asked.\par
\tab\ldblquote Tony,\rdblquote  and she scraped the anger off the edges of her mind\rquote s panic, \ldblquote you must make some noise when you walk. I can\rquote t have you stalking me, you know.... Didn\rquote t you use this kitchen?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I did, Mrs. Belmont.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It doesn\rquote t look it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I cleaned up afterward. Isn\rquote t that customary?\rdblquote\par
\tab Claire opened her eyes wide. After all, what could one say to that. She opened the oven compartment that held the pots, took a quick, unseeing look at the metallic glitter inside, then said with a tremor, \ldblquote Very good. Quite satisfactory.\rdblquote\par
\tab If at the moment, he had beamed; if he had smiled; if he had quirked the corner of his mouth the slightest bit, she felt that she could have warmed to him. But he remained an English lord in repose, as he said, \ldblquote Thank you, Mrs. Belmont. Would you come into the living room?\rdblquote\par
\tab She did, and it struck her at once. \ldblquote Have you been polishing the furni\-ture?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Is it satisfactory, Mrs. Belmont?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But when? You didn\rquote t do it yesterday.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Last night, of course.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You burned the lights all night?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, no. That wouldn\rquote t have been necessary. I\rquote ve a built-in ultra-violet source. I can see in ultraviolet. And, of course, I don\rquote t require sleep.\rdblquote\par
\tab He did require admiration, though. She realized that, then. He had to know that he was pleasing her. But she couldn\rquote t bring herself to supply that pleasure for him.\par
\tab She could only say sourly, \ldblquote Your kind will put ordinary houseworkers out of business.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote There is work of much greater importance they can be put to in the world, once they are freed of drudgery. After all, Mrs. Belmont, things like myself can be manufactured. But nothing yet can imitate the creativity and versatility of a human brain, like yours.\rdblquote\par
\tab And though his face gave no hint, his voice was warmly surcharged with awe and admiration, so that Claire flushed and muttered, \ldblquote My brain! You can have it.\rdblquote\par
\tab Tony approached a little and said, \ldblquote You must be unhappy to say such a thing. Is there anything I can do?\rdblquote\par
\tab For a moment, Claire felt like laughing. It \i was\i0  a ridiculous situation. Here was an animated carpet-sweeper, dishwasher, furniture-polisher, general fac\-totum, rising from the factory table--and offering his services as consoler and confidant.\par
\tab Yet she said suddenly, in a burst of woe and voice, \ldblquote Mr. Belmont doesn\rquote t think I have a brain, if you must know.... And I suppose I haven\rquote t.\rdblquote  She couldn\rquote t cry in front of him. She felt, for some reason, that she had the honor of the human race to support against this mere creation.\par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s lately,\rdblquote  she added. \ldblquote It was all right when he was a student; when he was just starting. But I can\rquote t be a big man\rquote s wife; and he\rquote s getting to be a big man. He wants me to be a hostess and an entry into social life for him--like G--guh--guh--Gladys Claffern.\rdblquote\par
\tab Her nose was red, and she looked away.\par
\tab But Tony wasn\rquote t watching her. His eyes wandered about the room. \ldblquote I can help you run the house.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But it\rquote s no good,\rdblquote  she said fiercely. \ldblquote It needs a touch I can\rquote t give it. I can \tab only make it comfortable; I can\rquote t ever make it the kind they take pictures of for the Home Beautiful magazines.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Do you want that kind?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Does it do any good--wanting?\rdblquote\par
\tab Tony\rquote s eyes were on her, full. \ldblquote I could help.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Do you know anything about interior decoration?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Is it something a good housekeeper should know?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, yes.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then I have the potentialities of learning it. Can you get me books on the subject?\rdblquote\par
\tab Something started then.\par
\par
\tab Claire, clutching her hat against the brawling liberties of the wind, had manipulated two fat volumes on the home arts back from the public library. She watched Tony as he opened one of them and flipped the pages. It was the first time she had watched his fingers flicker at anything like fine work.\par
\tab I don\rquote t see how they do it, she thought, and on a sudden impulse reached for his hand and pulled it toward herself. Tony did not resist, but let it lie limp for inspection.\par
\tab She said, \ldblquote It\rquote s remarkable. Even your fingernails look natural.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s deliberate, of course,\rdblquote  said Tony. Then, chattily, \ldblquote The skin is a flexible plastic, and the skeletal framework is a light metal alloy. Does that amuse you?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, no.\rdblquote  She lifted her reddened face. \ldblquote I just feel a little embarrassed at sort of poking into your insides. It\rquote s none of my business. You don\rquote t ask me about mine.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote My brain paths don\rquote t include that type of curiosity. I can only act within my limitations, you know.\rdblquote\par
\tab And Claire felt something tighten inside her in the silence that followed. Why did she keep forgetting he was a machine. Now the thing itself had to remind her. Was she so starved for sympathy that she would even accept a robot as equal--because he sympathized?\par
\tab She noticed Tony was still flipping the pages--almost helplessly--and there was a quick, shooting sense of relieved superiority within her. \ldblquote You can\rquote t read, can you?\rdblquote\par
\tab Tony looked up at her; his voice calm, unreproachful. \ldblquote I \i am\i0  reading, Mrs. Belmont.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But--\rdblquote  She pointed at the book in a meaningless gesture.\par
\tab\ldblquote I am scanning the pages, if that\rquote s what you mean. My sense of reading is photographic.\rdblquote\par
\tab It was evening then, and when Claire eventually went to bed Tony was well into the second volume, sitting there in the dark, or what seemed dark to Claire\rquote s limited eyes.\par
\tab Her last thought, the one that clamored at her just as her mind let go and tumbled, was a queer one. She remembered his hand again; the touch of it. It had been warm and soft, like a human being\rquote s. \par
\tab How clever of the factory, she thought, and softly ebbed to sleep.\par
\par
\tab It was the library continuously, thereafter, for several days. Tony sug\-gested the fields of study, which branched out quickly. There were books on color matching and on cosmetics; on carpentry and on fashions; on art and on the history of costumes.\par
\tab He turned the pages of each book before his solemn eyes, and, as quickly as he turned, he read; nor did he seem capable of forgetting.\par
\tab Before the end of the week, he had insisted on cutting her hair, introduc\-ing her to a new method of arranging it, adjusting her eyebrow line a bit and changing the shade of her powder and lipstick.\par
\tab She had palpitated in nervous dread for half an hour under the delicate touch of his inhuman fingers and then looked in the mirror.\par
\tab\ldblquote There is more that can be done,\rdblquote  said Tony, \ldblquote especially in clothes. How do you find it for a beginning?\rdblquote\par
\tab And she hadn\rquote t answered; not for quite a while. Not until she had ab\-sorbed the identity of the stranger in the glass and cooled the wonder at the beauty of it all. Then she had said chokingly, never once taking her eyes from the warming image, \ldblquote Yes, Tony, quite good--for a beginning.\rdblquote\par
\tab She said nothing of this in her letters to Larry. Let him see it all at once. And something in her realized that it wasn\rquote t only the surprise she would enjoy. It was going to be a kind of revenge.\par
\par
\tab Tony said one morning, \ldblquote It\rquote s time to start buying, and I\rquote m not allowed to leave the house. If I write out exactly what we must have, can I trust you to get it? We need drapery, and furniture fabric, wallpaper, carpeting, paint, clothing--and any number of small things.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You can\rquote t get these things to your own specifications at a stroke\rquote s no\-tice,\rdblquote  said Claire doubtfully.\par
\tab\ldblquote You can get fairly close, if you go through the city and if money is no object.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But, Tony, money is certainly an object.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Not at all. Stop off at U.S. Robots in the first place. I\rquote ll write a note for you. You see Dr. Calvin, and tell her that I said it was part of the experi\-ment.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Dr. Calvin, somehow, didn\rquote t frighten her as on that first evening. With her new face and a new hat, she couldn\rquote t be quite the old Claire. The psychologist listened carefully, asked a few questions, nodded--and then Claire found herself walking out, armed with an unlimited charge account against the assets of U.S. Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation.\par
\tab It is wonderful what money will do. With a store\rquote s contents at her feet, a saleslady\rquote s dictum was not necessarily a voice from above; the uplifted eye\-brow of a decorator was not anything like Jove\rquote s thunder.\par
\tab And once, when an Exalted Plumpness at one of the most lordly of the garment salons had insistently poohed her description of the wardrobe she must have with counterpronouncements in accents of the purest Fifty-sev\-enth Street French, she called up Tony, then held the phone out to Mon\-sieur.\par
\tab\ldblquote If you don\rquote t mind\rdblquote --voice firm, but fingers twisting a bit--\rdblquote I\rquote d like you to talk to my--uh--secretary.\rdblquote\par
\tab Pudgy proceeded to the phone with a solemn arm crooked behind his back. He lifted the phone in two fingers and said delicately, \ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote  A short pause, another \ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  then a much longer pause, a squeaky beginning of an objection that perished quickly, another pause, a very meek \ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  and the phone was restored to its cradle.\par
\tab\ldblquote If Madam will come with me,\rdblquote  he said, hurt and distant, \ldblquote I will try to supply her needs.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Just a second.\rdblquote  Claire rushed back to the phone, and dialed again. \ldblquote Hello, Tony. I don\rquote t know what you said, but it worked. Thanks. You\rquote re a--\rdblquote  She struggled for the appropriate word, gave up and ended in a final little squeak, \ldblquote --a--a dear!\rdblquote\par
\tab It was Gladys Claffern looking at her when she turned from the phone again. A slightly amused and slightly amazed Gladys Claffern, looking at her out of a face tilted a bit to one side.\par
\tab\ldblquote Mrs. Belmont?\rdblquote\par
\tab It all drained out of Claire--just like that. She could only nod--stupidly, like a marionette.\par
\tab Gladys smiled with an insolence you couldn\rquote t put your finger on. \ldblquote I didn\rquote t know you shopped here?\rdblquote  As if the place had, in her eyes, definitely lost caste through the fact.\par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t, usually,\rdblquote  said Claire humbly.\par
\tab\ldblquote And haven\rquote t you done something to your hair? It\rquote s quite--quaint.... Oh, I hope you\rquote ll excuse me, but isn\rquote t your husband\rquote s name Lawrence? It seems to me that it\rquote s Lawrence.\rdblquote\par
\tab Claire\rquote s teeth clenched, but she had to explain. She \i had\i0  to. \ldblquote Tony is a friend of my husband\rquote s. He\rquote s helping me select some things.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I understand. And quite a \i dear\i0  about it, I imagine.\rdblquote  She passed on smiling, carrying the light and the warmth of the world with her.\par
\par
\tab Claire did not question the fact that it was to Tony that she turned for consolation. Ten days had cured her of reluctance. And she could weep before him; weep and rage.\par
\tab\ldblquote I was a complete f-fool,\rdblquote  she stormed, wrenching at her water-togged handkerchief. \ldblquote She does that to me. I don\rquote t know why. She just does. I should have--kicked her. I should have knocked her down and stamped on her.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Can you hate a human being so much?\rdblquote  asked Tony, in puzzled softness. \ldblquote That part of a human mind is closed to me.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, it isn\rquote t she,\rdblquote  she moaned. \ldblquote It\rquote s myself, I suppose. She\rquote s everything I want to be--on the outside, anyway.... And I can\rquote t be.\rdblquote\par
\tab Tony\rquote s voice was forceful and low in her ear. \ldblquote You can be, Mrs. Belmont. You can be. We have ten days yet, and in ten days the house will no longer be itself. Haven\rquote t we been planning that?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And how will that help me--with her?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Invite her here. Invite her friends. Have it the evening before I--before I leave. It will be a housewarming, in a way.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote She won\rquote t come.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, she will. She\rquote ll come to laugh.... And she won\rquote t be able to.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Do you really think so? Oh, Tony, do you think we can do it?\rdblquote  She had both his hands in hers.... And then, with her face flung aside, \ldblquote But what good would it be? It won\rquote t be I; it will be you that\rquote s doing it. I can\rquote t ride your back.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Nobody lives in splendid singleness,\rdblquote  whispered Tony. \ldblquote They\rquote ve put that knowledge in me. What you, or anyone, see in Gladys Claffern is not just Gladys Claffern. She rides the back of all that money and social position can bring. She doesn\rquote t question that. Why should you? ... And look at it this way, Mrs. Belmont. I am manufactured to obey, but the extent of my obedience is for myself to determine. I can follow orders niggardly or liber\-ally. For you, it is liberal, because you are what I have been manufactured to see human beings as. You are kind, friendly, unassuming. Mrs. Claffern, as you describe her, is not, and I wouldn\rquote t obey her as I would you. So it \i is\i0  you, and not \i I\i0 , Mrs. Belmont, that is doing all this.\rdblquote\par
\tab He withdrew his hands from hers then, and Claire looked at that expres\-sionless face no one could read--wondering. She was suddenly frightened \lquote  again in a completely new way.\par
\tab She swallowed nervously and stared at her hands, which were still tingling \lquote  with the pressure of his fingers. She hadn\rquote t imagined it; his fingers had pressed hers, gently, tenderly, just before they moved away. \par
\tab\i No!\par
\i0\tab\i Its\i0  fingers ... \i Its\i0  fingers....\par
\tab She ran to the bathroom and scrubbed her hands--blindly, uselessly.\par
\par
\tab She was a bit shy of him the next day; watching him narrowly; waiting to see what might follow--and for a while nothing did.\par
\tab Tony was working. If there was any difficulty in technique in putting up wallpaper, or utilizing the quick-drying paint, Tony\rquote s activity did not show it. His hands moved precisely; his fingers were deft and sure.\par
\tab He worked all night. She never heard him, but each morning was a new adventure. She couldn\rquote t count the number of things that had been done, and by evening she was still finding new touches--and another night had come.\par
\tab She tried to help only once and her human clumsiness marred that. \i He\i0  was in the next room, and she was hanging a picture in the spot marked by Tony\rquote s mathematical eyes. The little mark was there; the picture was there; and a revulsion against idleness was there.\par
\tab But she was nervous, or the ladder was rickety. It didn\rquote t matter. She felt it going, and she cried out. It tumbled without her, for Tony, with far more than flesh-and-blood quickness, had been under her.\par
\tab His calm, dark eyes said nothing at all, and his warm voice said only words. \ldblquote Are you hurt, Mrs. Belmont?\rdblquote\par
\tab She noticed for an instant that her falling hand must have mussed that sleek hair of his, because for the first time she could see for herself that it was composed of distinct strands--fine black hairs.\par
\tab And then, all at once, she was conscious of his arms about her shoulders and under her knees--holding her tightly and warmly.\par
\tab She pushed, and her scream was loud in her own ears. She spent the rest of the day in her room, and thereafter she slept with a chair upended against the doorknob of her bedroom door.\par
\par
\tab She had sent out the invitations, and, as Tony had said, they were ac\-cepted. She had only to wait for the last evening.\par
\tab It came, too, after the rest of them, in its proper place. The house was scarcely her own. She went through it one last time--and every room had been changed. She, herself, was in clothes she would never have dared wear before.... And when you put them on, you put on pride and confidence with them.\par
\tab She tried a polite look of contemptuous amusement before the minor, and the mirror sneered back at her masterfully.\par
\tab What would Larry say? ... It didn\rquote t matter, somehow. The exciting days weren\rquote t coming with him. They were leaving with Tony. Now wasn\rquote t that strange? She tried to recapture her mood of three weeks before and failed completely.\par
\par
\tab The clock shrieked eight at her in eight breathless installments, and she turned to Tony. \ldblquote They\rquote ll be here soon, Tony. You\rquote d better get into the basement. We can\rquote t let them--\rdblquote\par
\tab She stared a moment, then said weakly, \ldblquote Tony?\rdblquote  and more strongly, \ldblquote Tony?\rdblquote  and nearly a scream, \ldblquote\i Tony!\i0\rdblquote\par
\tab But his arms were around her now; his face was close to hers; the pressure of his embrace was relentless. She heard his voice through a haze of emo\-tional jumble.\par
\tab\ldblquote Claire,\rdblquote  the voice said, \ldblquote there are many things I am not made to under\-stand, and this must be one of them. I am leaving tomorrow, and I don\rquote t want to. I find that there is more in me than just a desire to please you. Isn\rquote t it strange?\rdblquote\par
\tab His face was closer; his lips were warm, but with no breath behind them --for machines do not breathe. They were almost on hers.\par
\tab ... And the bell sounded.\par
\tab For a moment, she struggled breathlessly, and then he was gone and nowhere in sight, and the bell was sounding again. Its intermittent shrillness was insistent.\par
\tab The curtains on the front windows had been pulled open. They had been closed fifteen minutes earlier. She knew that.\par
\tab They must have seen, then. They must \i all\i0  have seen--everything!\par
\par
\tab They came in so politely, all in a bunch--the pack come to howl--with their sharp, darting eyes piercing everywhere. They \i had\i0  seen. Why else would Gladys ask in her jabbingest manner after Larry? And Claire was spurred to a desperate and reckless defiance.\par
\tab Yes, he \i is\i0  away. He\rquote ll be back tomorrow, I suppose. No, I haven\rquote t been lonely here myself. Not a bit. I\rquote ve had an exciting time. And she laughed at them. Why not? What could they do? Larry would know the truth, if it ever came to him, the story of what they thought they saw.\par
\tab But \i they\i0  didn\rquote t laugh.\par
\tab She could read that in the fury in Gladys Claffern\rquote s eyes; in the false sparkle of her words; in her desire to leave early. And as she parted with them, she caught one last, anonymous whisper--disjointed.\par
\tab\ldblquote ... never saw anything like ... so \i handsome\i0 --\rdblquote\par
\tab And she knew what it was that had enabled her to finger-snap them so. Let each cat mew; and let each cat know--that she might be prettier than Claire Belmont, and grander, and richer--but not one, \i not one\i0 , could have so handsome a lover!\par
\tab And then she remembered again--again--again, that Tony was a ma\-chine, and her skin crawled.\par
\tab\ldblquote Go away! Leave me be!\rdblquote  she cried to the empty room and ran to her bed. She wept wakefully all that night and the next morning, almost before dawn, when the streets were empty, a car drew up to the house and took Tony away.\par
\par
\tab Lawrence Belmont passed Dr. Calvin\rquote s office, and, on impulse, knocked. He found her with Mathematician Peter Bogert, but did not hesitate on that account.\par
\tab He said, \ldblquote Claire tells me that U.S. Robots paid for all that was done at my house--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  said Dr. Calvin. \ldblquote We\rquote ve written it off, as a valuable and necessary part of the experiment. With your new position as Associate Engineer, you\rquote ll be able to keep it up, I think.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s not what I\rquote m worried about. With Washington agreeing to the tests, we\rquote ll be able to get a TN model of our own by next year, I think.\rdblquote  He turned hesitantly, as though to go, and as hesitantly turned back again.\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, Mr. Belmont?\rdblquote  asked Dr. Calvin, after a pause.\par
\tab\ldblquote I wonder--\rdblquote  began Larry. \ldblquote I wonder what really happened there. She-- Claire, I mean--seems so different. It\rquote s not just her looks--though, frankly, I\rquote m amazed.\rdblquote  He laughed nervously. \ldblquote It\rquote s \i her!\i0  She\rquote s not my wife, really--I can\rquote t explain it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why try? Are you disappointed with any part of the change?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote On the contrary. But it\rquote s a little frightening, too, you see--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I wouldn\rquote t worry, Mr. Belmont. Your wife has handled herself very well. Frankly, I never expected to have the experiment yield such a thorough and complete test. We know exactly what corrections must be made in the TN model, and the credit belongs entirely to Mrs. Belmont. If you want me to be very honest, I think your wife deserves your promotion more than you do.\rdblquote\par
\tab Larry flinched visibly at that. \ldblquote As long as it\rquote s in the family,\rdblquote  he murmured unconvincingly and left.\par
\par
\tab Susan Calvin looked after him, \ldblquote I think that hurt--I hope.... Have you read Tony\rquote s report, Peter?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Thoroughly,\rdblquote  said Bogert. \ldblquote And won\rquote t the TN-3 model need changes?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, you think so, too?\rdblquote  questioned Calvin sharply. \ldblquote What\rquote s your reason\-ing?\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert frowned. \ldblquote I don\rquote t need any. It\rquote s obvious on the face of it that we can\rquote t have a robot loose which makes love to his mistress, if you don\rquote t mind the pun.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Love! Peter, you sicken me. You really don\rquote t understand? That machine had to obey the First Law. He couldn\rquote t allow harm to come to a human being, and harm was coming to Claire Belmont through her own sense of inadequacy. So he made love to her, since what woman would fail to appre\-ciate the compliment of being able to stir passion in a machine--in a cold, soulless machine. And he opened the curtains that night deliberately, that the others might see and envy--without any risk possible to Claire\rquote s mar\-riage. I think it was clever of Tony--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Do you? What\rquote s the difference whether it was pretense or not, Susan? It still has its horrifying effect. Read the report again. She avoided him. She screamed when he held her. She didn\rquote t sleep that last night--in hysterics. We can\rquote t have that.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Peter, you\rquote re blind. You\rquote re as blind as I was. The TN model will be rebuilt entirely, but not for your reason. Quite otherwise; quite otherwise. Strange that I overlooked it in the first place,\rdblquote  her eyes were opaquely thoughtful, \ldblquote but perhaps it reflects a shortcoming in myself. You see, Peter, machines can\rquote t fall in love, but--even when it\rquote s hopeless and horrifying-- women can!\rdblquote\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Lenny \par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\tab United States Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation had a problem. The problem was people. \par
\tab Peter Bogert, Senior Mathematician, was on his way to Assembly when he encountered Alfred Lanning, Research Director. Lanning was bending his ferocious white eyebrows together and staring down across the railing into the computer room. \par
\tab On the floor below the balcony, a trickle of humanity of both sexes and various ages was looking about curiously, while a guide intoned a set speech about robotic computing. \par
\tab\ldblquote This computer you see before you,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote is the largest of its type in the world. It contains five million three hundred thousand cryotrons and is capable of dealing simultaneously with over one hundred thousand variables. With its help, U. S. Robots is able to design with precision the positronic brains of new models. \ldblquote The requirements are fed in on tape which is perforated by the action of this keyboard--something like a very complicated typewriter or linotype machine, except that it does not deal with letters but with concepts. Statements are broken down into the symbolic logic equivalents and those in turn converted to perforation patterns. \par
\tab\ldblquote The computer can, in less than one hour, present our scientists with a design for a brain which will give all the necessary positronic paths to make a robot...\rdblquote  \par
\tab Alfred Lanning looked up at last and noticed the other. \ldblquote Ah, Peter,\rdblquote  he said. \par
\tab Bogert raised both hands to smooth down his already perfectly smooth and glossy head of black hair. He said, \ldblquote You don\rquote t look as though you think much of this, Alfred.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lanning grunted. The idea of public guided tours of U. S. Robots was of fairly recent origin, and was supposed to serve a dual function. On the one hand, the theory went, it allowed people to see robots at close quarters and counter their almost instinctive fear of the mechanical objects through increased familiarity. And on the other hand, it was supposed to interest at least an occasional person in taking up robotics research as a life work. \par
\tab\ldblquote You know I don\rquote t,\rdblquote  Lanning said finally. \ldblquote Once a week, work is disrupted. Considering the man-hours lost, the return is insufficient.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Still no rise in job applications, then?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, some, but only in the categories where the need isn\rquote t vital. It\rquote s research men that are needed. You know that. The trouble is that with robots forbidden on Earth itself, there\rquote s something unpopular about being a roboticist.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The damned Frankenstein complex,\rdblquote  said Bogert, consciously imitating one of the other\rquote s pet phrases. \par
\tab Lanning missed the gentle jab. He said, \ldblquote I ought to be used to it, but I never will. You\rquote d think that by now every human being on Earth would know that the Three Laws represented a perfect safeguard; that robots are simply not dangerous. Take this bunch.\rdblquote  He glowered down. \ldblquote Look at them. Most of them go through the robot assembly room for the thrill of fear, like riding a roller coaster. Then when they enter the room with the MEC model--damn it, Peter, a MEC model that will do nothing on God\rquote s green Earth but take two steps forward, say \lquote Pleased to meet you, sir,\rquote  shake hands, then take two steps back--they back away and mothers snatch up their kids. How do we expect to get brainwork out of such idiots?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Bogert had no answer. Together, they stared down once again at the line of sightseers, now passing out of the computer room and into the positronic brain assembly section. Then they left. They did not, as it turned out, observe Mortimer W. Jacobson, age 16--who, to do him complete justice, meant no harm whatever. \par
\par
\tab In fact, it could not even be said to be Mortimer\rquote s fault. The day of the week on which the tour took place was known to all workers. \par
\tab All devices in its path ought to have been carefully neutralized or locked, since it was unreasonable to expect human beings to withstand the temptation to handle knobs, keys, handles and pushbuttons. In addition, the guide ought to have been very carefully on the watch for those who succumbed. \par
\tab But, at the time, the guide had passed into the next room and Mortimer was tailing the line. He passed the keyboard on which instructions were fed into the computer. He had no way of suspecting that the plans for a new robot design were being fed into it at that moment, or, being a good kid, he would have avoided the keyboard. He had no way of knowing that, by what amounted to almost criminal negligence, a technician had not inactivated the keyboard. \par
\tab So Mortimer touched the keys at random as though he were playing a musical instrument. \par
\tab He did not notice that a section of perforated tape stretched itself out of the instrument in another part of the room--soundlessly, unobtrusively. \par
\tab Nor did the technician, when he returned, discover any signs of tampering. He felt a little uneasy at noticing that the keyboard was live, but did not think to check. After a few minutes, even his first trifling uneasiness was gone, and he continued feeding data into the computer. \par
\tab As for Mortimer, neither then, nor ever afterward, did he know what he had done. \par
\par
\tab The new LNE model was designed for the mining of boron in the asteroid belt. The boron hydrides were increasing in value yearly as primers for the proton micropiles that carried the ultimate load of power production on spaceships, and Earth\rquote s own meager supply was running thin. \par
\tab Physically, that meant that the LNE robots would have to be equipped with eyes sensitive to those lines prominent in the spectroscopic analysis of boron ores and the type of limbs most useful for the working up of ore to finished product. As always, though, the mental equipment was the major problem. \par
\tab The first LNE positronic brain had been completed now. It was the prototype and would join all other prototypes in U. S. Robots\rquote  collection. When finally tested, others would then be manufactured for leasing (never selling) to mining corporations. \par
\tab LNE-Prototype was complete now. Tall, straight, polished, it looked from outside like any of a number of not-too-specialized robot models. \par
\tab The technician in charge, guided by the directions for testing in the \i Handbook of Robotics, \i0 said, \ldblquote How are you?\rdblquote  \par
\tab The indicated answer was to have been, \ldblquote I am well and ready to begin my functions. I trust you are well, too,\rdblquote  or some trivial modification thereof. \par
\tab This first exchange served no purpose but to show that the robot could hear, understand a routine question, and make a routine reply congruent with what one would expect of a robotic attitude. Beginning from there, one could pass on to more complicated matters that would test the different Laws and their interaction with the specialized knowledge of each particular model. \par
\tab So the technician said, \ldblquote How are you?\rdblquote  He was instantly jolted by the nature of LNE-Prototype\rquote s voice. It had a quality like no robotic voice he had ever heard (and he had heard many). It formed syllables like the chimes of a low-pitched celeste. \par
\tab So surprising was this that it was only after several moments that the technician heard, in retrospect, the syllables that had been formed by those heavenly tones. They were, \ldblquote Da, da, da, goo.\rdblquote  The robot still stood tall and straight but its right hand crept upward and a finger went into its mouth. \par
\tab The technician stared in absolute horror and bolted. He locked the door behind him and, from another room, put in an emergency call to Dr. Susan Calvin. \par
\par
\tab Dr. Susan Calvin was U. S. Robots\rquote  (and, virtually, mankind\rquote s) only robopsychologist. She did not have to go very far in her testing of LNE-Prototype before she called very peremptorily for a transcript of the computer-drawn plans of the positronic brain-paths and the taped instructions that had directed them. After some study, she, in turn, sent for Bogert. \par
\tab Her iron-gray hair was drawn severely back; her cold face, with its strong vertical lines marked off by the horizontal gash of the pale, thin-lipped mouth, turned intensely upon him. \par
\tab\ldblquote What \i is \i0 this, Peter?\rdblquote  Bogert studied the passages she pointed out with increasing stupefaction and said, \ldblquote Good Lord, Susan, it makes no sense.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It most certainly doesn\rquote t. How did it get into the instructions?\rdblquote  The technician in charge, called upon, swore in all sincerity that it was none of his doing, and that he could not account for it. The computer checked out negative for all attempts at flaw-finding. \par
\tab\ldblquote The positronic brain,\rdblquote  said Susan Calvin, thoughtfully, \ldblquote is past redemption. So many of the higher functions have been cancelled out by these meaningless directions that the result is very like a human baby.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Bogert looked surprised, and Susan Calvin took on a frozen attitude at once, as she always did at the least expressed or implied doubt of her word. She said, \ldblquote We make every effort to make a robot as mentally like a man as possible. Eliminate what we call the adult functions and what is naturally left is a human infant, mentally speaking. Why do you look so surprised, Peter?\rdblquote  \par
\tab LNE-Prototype, who showed no signs of understanding any of the things that were going on around it, suddenly slipped into a sitting position and began a minute examination of its feet. \par
\tab Bogert stared at it. \ldblquote It\rquote s a shame to have to dismantle the creature. It\rquote s a handsome job.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Dismantle it?\rdblquote  said the robopsychologist forcefully. \ldblquote Of course, Susan. What\rquote s the use of this thing? Good Lord, if there\rquote s one object completely and abysmally useless it\rquote s a robot without a job it can perform. You don\rquote t pretend there\rquote s a job this thing can do, do you?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No, of course not.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, then?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Susan Calvin said, stubbornly, \ldblquote I want to conduct more tests.\rdblquote  Bogert looked at her with a moment\rquote s impatience, then shrugged. If there was one person at U. S. Robots with whom it was useless to dispute, surely that was Susan Calvin. Robots were all she loved, and long association with them, it seemed to Bogert, had deprived her of any appearance of humanity. She was no more to be argued out of a decision than was a triggered micropile to be argued out of operating. \par
\tab\ldblquote What\rquote s the use?\rdblquote  he breathed; then aloud, hastily: \ldblquote Will you let us know when your tests are complete?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I will,\rdblquote  she said. \ldblquote Come, Lenny.\rdblquote  \par
\tab (LNE, thought Bogert. That becomes Lenny. Inevitable.) \par
\tab Susan Calvin held out her hand but the robot only stared at it. Gently, the robopsychologist reached for the robot\rquote s hand and took it. Lenny rose smoothly to its feet (its mechanical coordination, at least, worked well). Together they walked out, robot topping woman by two feet. Many eyes followed them curiously down the long corridors. \par
\par
\tab One wall of Susan Calvin\rquote s laboratory, the one opening directly off her private office, was covered with a highly magnified reproduction of a positronic-path chart. Susan Calvin had studied it with absorption for the better part of a month. \par
\tab She was considering it now, carefully, tracing the blunted paths through their contortions. Behind her, Lenny sat on the floor, moving its legs apart and together, crooning meaningless syllables to itself in a voice so beautiful that one could listen to the nonsense and be ravished. \par
\tab Susan Calvin turned to the robot, \ldblquote Lenny--Lenny--\rdblquote  \par
\tab She repeated this patiently until finally Lenny looked up and made an inquiring sound. The robopsychologist allowed a glimmer of pleasure to cross her face fleetingly. The robot\rquote s attention was being gained in progressively shorter intervals. \par
\tab She said, \ldblquote Raise your hand, Lenny. Hand-up. Hand-up.\rdblquote  She raised her own hand as she said it, over and over. \par
\tab Lenny followed the movement with its eyes. Up, down, up, down. Then it made an abortive gesture with its own hand and chimed, \ldblquote Eh-uh.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Very good, Lenny,\rdblquote  said Susan Calvin, gravely. \ldblquote Try it again. Hand-up.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Very gently, she reached out her own hand, took the robot\rquote s, and raised it, lowered it. \ldblquote Hand-up. Hand-up.\rdblquote  \par
\tab A voice from her office called and interrupted. \ldblquote Susan?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Calvin halted with a tightening of her lips. \ldblquote What is it, Alfred?\rdblquote  The research director walked in, and looked at the chart on the wall and at the robot. \ldblquote Still at it?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m at my work, yes.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well, you know, Susan...\rdblquote  He took out a cigar, staring at it hard, and made as though to bite off the end. In doing so, his eyes met the woman\rquote s stern look of disapproval; and he put the cigar away and began over. \ldblquote Well, you know, Susan, the LNE model is in production now.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote So I\rquote ve heard. Is there something in connection with it you wish of me?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No-o. Still, the mere fact that it is in production and is doing well means that working with this messed-up specimen is useless. Shouldn\rquote t it be scrapped?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote In short, Alfred, you are annoyed that I am wasting my so-valuable time. Feel relieved. My time is not being wasted. I am \i working \i0 with this robot.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But the work has no meaning.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ll be the judge of that, Alfred.\rdblquote  Her voice was ominously quiet, and Lanning thought it wiser to shift his ground. \par
\tab\ldblquote Will you tell me what meaning it has? What are you doing with it right now, for instance?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m trying to get it to raise its hand on the word of command. I\rquote m trying to get it to imitate the sound of the word.\rdblquote  \par
\tab As though on cue, Lenny said, \ldblquote Eh-uh\rdblquote And raised its hand waveringly. \par
\tab Lanning shook his head. \ldblquote That voice is amazing. How does it happen?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Susan Calvin said, \ldblquote I don\rquote t quite know. Its transmitter is a normal one. It could speak normally, I\rquote m sure. It doesn\rquote t, however; it speaks like this as a consequence of something in the positronic paths that I have not yet pinpointed.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well, pinpoint it, for Heaven\rquote s sake. Speech like that might be useful.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, then there is some possible use in my studies on Lenny?\rdblquote  Lanning shrugged in embarrassment. \ldblquote Oh, well, it\rquote s a minor point.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m sorry you don\rquote t see the major points, then,\rdblquote  said Susan Calvin with asperity, \ldblquote which are much more important, but that\rquote s not my fault. Would you leave now, Alfred, and let me go on with my work?\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab Lanning got to his cigar, eventually, in Bogert\rquote s office. He said, sourly, \ldblquote That woman is growing more peculiar daily.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Bogert understood perfectly. In the U. S. Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation, there was only one \ldblquote that woman.\rdblquote  He said, \ldblquote Is she still scuffing about with that pseudo-robot--that Lenny of hers?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Trying to get it to talk, so help me.\rdblquote  Bogert shrugged. \ldblquote Points up the company problem. I mean, about getting qualified personnel for research. If we had other robopsychologists, we could retire Susan. Incidentally, I presume the directors\rquote  meeting scheduled for tomorrow is for the purpose of dealing with the procurement problem?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lanning nodded and looked at his cigar as though it didn\rquote t taste good. \ldblquote Yes. Quality, though, not quantity. We\rquote ve raised wages until there\rquote s a steady stream of applicants--those who are interested primarily in money. The trick is to get those who are interested primarily in robotics--a few more like Susan Calvin.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Hell, no. Not like her.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, not like her personally. But you\rquote ll have to admit, Peter, that she\rquote s single-minded about robots. She has no other interest in life.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I know. And that\rquote s exactly what makes her so unbearable.\rdblquote  Lanning nodded. He had lost count of the many times it would have done his soul good to have fired Susan Calvin. He had also lost count of the number of millions of dollars she had at one time or another saved the company. She was a truly indispensable woman and would remain one until she died--or until they could lick the problem of finding men and women of her own high caliber who were interested in robotics research. \par
\tab He said, \ldblquote I think we\rquote ll cut down on the tour business.\rdblquote  Peter shrugged. \ldblquote If you say so. But meanwhile, seriously, what do we do about Susan? She can easily tie herself up with Lenny indefinitely. You know how she is when she gets what she considers an interesting problem.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What \i can \i0 we do?\rdblquote  said Lanning. \ldblquote If we become too anxious to pull her off, she\rquote ll stay on out of feminine contrariness. In the last analysis, we can\rquote t force her to do anything.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The dark-haired mathematician smiled. \ldblquote I wouldn\rquote t ever apply the adjective \lquote feminine\rquote  to any part of her.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, well,\rdblquote  said Lanning, grumpily. \ldblquote At least, it won\rquote t do anyone any actual harm.\rdblquote  \par
\tab In that, if in nothing else, he was wrong. The emergency signal is always a tension-making thing in any large industrial establishment. Such signals had sounded in the history of U. S. Robots a dozen times--for fire, flood, riot and insurrection. \par
\tab But one thing had never occurred in all that time. Never had the particular signal indicating \ldblquote Robot out of control\rdblquote  sounded. No one ever expected it to sound. It was only installed at government insistence. (\ldblquote Damn the Frankenstein complex,\rdblquote  Lanning would mutter on those rare occasions when he thought of it.) \par
\tab Now, finally, the shrill siren rose and fell at ten-second intervals, and practically no worker from the President of the Board of Directors down to the newest janitor\rquote s assistant recognized the significance of the strange sound for a few moments. After those moments passed, there was a massive convergence of armed guards and medical men to the indicated area of danger and U. S. Robots was struck with paralysis. \par
\tab Charles Randow, computing technician, was taken off to hospital level with a broken arm. There was no other damage. No other physical damage. \par
\tab\ldblquote But the moral damage,\rdblquote  roared Lanning, \ldblquote is beyond estimation.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Susan Calvin faced him, murderously calm. \ldblquote You will do nothing to Lenny. Nothing. Do you understand?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Do \i you \i0 understand, Susan?\rdblquote  That thing has hurt a human being. It has broken First Law. Don\rquote t you know what First Law is?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You will do nothing to Lenny.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote For God\rquote s sake, Susan, do I have to tell \i you \i0 First Law? A \i robot may not harm a human being or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm. \i0 Our entire position depends on the fact that First Law is rigidly observed by all robots of all types. If the public should hear, and they will hear, that there was an exception, even one exception, we might be forced to close down altogether. Our only chance of survival would be to announce at once that the robot involved had been destroyed, explain the circumstances, and hope that the public can be convinced that it will never happen again.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I would like to find out exactly what happened,\rdblquote  said Susan Calvin. \ldblquote I was not present at the time and I would like to know exactly what the Randow boy was doing in my laboratories without my permission.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The important thing that happened,\rdblquote  said Lanning, \ldblquote is obvious. Your robot struck Randow and the damn fool flashed the \lquote Robot out of control\rquote  button and made a case of it. But your robot struck him and inflicted damage to the extent of a broken arm. The truth is your Lenny is so distorted it lacks First Law and it must be destroyed.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It does \i not \i0 lack First Law. I have studied its brainpaths and know it does not lack it.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Then how could it strike a man?\rdblquote  Desperation turned him to sarcasm. \ldblquote Ask Lenny. Surely you have taught it to speak by now.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Susan Calvin\rquote s cheeks Bushed a painful pink. She said, \ldblquote I prefer to interview the victim. And in my absence, Alfred, I want my offices sealed tight, with Lenny inside. I want no one to approach him. If any harm comes to him while I am gone, this company will not see me again under any circumstances.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Will you agree to its destruction, if it has broken First Law?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  said Susan Calvin, \ldblquote because I know it hasn\rquote t.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab Charles Randow lay in bed with his arm set and in a cast. His major suffering was still from the shock of those few moments in which he thought a robot was advancing on him with murder in its positronic mind. No other human had ever had such reason to fear direct robotic harm as he had had just then. He had had a unique experience. \par
\tab Susan Calvin and Alfred Lanning stood beside his bed now; Peter Bogert, who had met them on the way, was with them. Doctors and nurses had been shooed out. \par
\tab Susan Calvin said, \ldblquote Now--what happened?\rdblquote  Randow was daunted. He muttered, \ldblquote The thing hit me in the arm. It was coming at me.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Calvin said, \ldblquote Move further back in the story. What were you doing in my laboratory without authorization?\rdblquote  \par
\tab The young computer swallowed, and the Adam\rquote s apple in his thin neck bobbed noticeably. He was high-cheekboned and abnormally pale. He said, \ldblquote We all knew about your robot. The word is you were trying to teach it to talk like a musical instrument. There were bets going as to whether it talked or not. Some said--uh--you could teach a gatepost to talk.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I suppose,\rdblquote  said Susan Calvin, freezingly, \ldblquote that is meant as a compliment. What did that have to do with you?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I was supposed to go in there and settle matters--see if it would talk, you know. We swiped a key to your place and I waited till you were gone and went in. We had a lottery on who was to do it. I lost.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Then?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I tried to get it to talk and it hit me.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What do you mean, you tried to get it to talk? How did you try?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I--I asked it questions, but it wouldn\rquote t say anything, and I had to give the thing a fair shake, so I kind of--yelled at it, and--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And?\rdblquote  \par
\tab There was a long pause. Under Susan Calvin\rquote s unwavering stare, Randow finally said, \ldblquote I tried to scare it into saying something.\rdblquote  He added defensively, \ldblquote I had to give the thing a fair shake.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote How did you try to scare it?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I pretended to take a punch at it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And it brushed your arm aside?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It \i hit \i0 my arm.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Very well. That\rquote s all.\rdblquote  To Lanning and Bogert, she said, \ldblquote Come, gentlemen.\rdblquote  \par
\tab At the doorway, she turned back to Randow. \ldblquote I can settle the bets going around, if you are still interested. Lenny can speak a few words quite well.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab They said nothing until they were in Susan Calvin\rquote s office. Its walls were lined with her books, some of which she had written herself. It retained the patina of her own frigid, carefully ordered personality. It had only one chair in it and she sat down. Lanning and Bogert remained standing. \par
\tab She said, \ldblquote Lenny only defended itself. That is the Third Law: A \i robot must protect its own existence.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Except,\rdblquote  \i0 said Lanning forcefully, \i\ldblquote when this conflicts with the First \i0 or \i Second Laws. \i0 Complete the statement! Lenny had no right to defend itself in any way at the cost of harm, however minor, to a human being.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Nor did it,\rdblquote  shot back Calvin, \i\ldblquote knowingly. \i0 Lenny has an aborted brain. It had no way of knowing its own strength or the weakness of humans. In brushing aside the threatening arm of a human being it could not know the bone would break. In human terms, no moral blame can be attached to an individual who honestly cannot differentiate good and evil.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Bogert interrupted, soothingly, \ldblquote Now, Susan, \i we \i0 don\rquote t blame. \i We \i0 understand that Lenny is the equivalent of a baby, humanly speaking, and we don\rquote t blame it. But the public will. U. S. Robots will be closed down.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Quite the opposite. If you had the brains of a flea, Peter, you would see that this is the opportunity U. S. Robots is waiting for. That this will solve its problems.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lanning hunched his white eyebrows low. He said, softly, \ldblquote What problems, Susan?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Isn\rquote t the corporation concerned about maintaining our research personnel at the present--Heaven help us--high level?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote We certainly are.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, what are you offering prospective researchers? Excitement? Novelty? The thrill of piercing the unknown? No! You offer them salaries and the assurance of no problems.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Bogert said, \ldblquote How do you mean, no problems?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Are there problems?\rdblquote  shot back Susan Calvin. \ldblquote What kind of robots do we turn out? Fully developed robots, fit for their tasks. An industry tells us what it needs; a computer designs the brain; machinery forms the robot; and there it is, complete and done. Peter, some time ago, you asked me with reference to Lenny what its use was. What\rquote s the use, you said, of a robot that was not designed for any job? Now I ask you--what\rquote s the use of a robot designed for only one job? It begins and ends in the same place. The LNE models mine boron. If beryllium is needed, they are useless. If boron technology enters a new phase, they become useless. A human being so designed would be sub-human. A robot so designed is sub-robotic.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Do you want a versatile robot?\rdblquote  asked Lanning, incredulously. \ldblquote Why not?\rdblquote  demanded the robopsychologist. \ldblquote Why not? I\rquote ve been handed a robot with a brain almost completely stultified. I\rquote ve been teaching it, and you, Alfred, asked me what was the use of that. Perhaps very little as far as Lenny itself is concerned, since it will never progress beyond the five-year-old level on a human scale. But what\rquote s the use in general? A very great deal, if you consider it as a study in the abstract problem of \i learning how \i0 to \i teach robots. \i0 I have learned ways to short-circuit neighboring pathways in order to create new ones. More study will yield better, more subtle and more efficient techniques of doing so.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Suppose you started with a positronic brain that had all the basic pathways carefully outlined but none of the secondaries. Suppose you then started creating secondaries. You could sell basic robots designed for instruction; robots that could be modeled to a job, and then modeled to another, if necessary. Robots would become as versatile as human beings. \i Robots could learn!\rdblquote  \par
\tab\i0 They stared at her. She said, impatiently, \ldblquote You still don\rquote t understand, do you?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I understand what you are saying,\rdblquote  said Lanning. \par
\tab\ldblquote Don\rquote t you understand that with a completely new field of research and completely new techniques to be developed, with a completely new area of the unknown to be penetrated, youngsters will feel a new urge to enter robotics? Try it and see.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote May I point out,\rdblquote  said Bogert, smoothly, \ldblquote that this is dangerous. Beginning with ignorant robots such as Lenny will mean that one could never trust First Law--exactly as turned out in Lenny\rquote s case.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Exactly. Advertise the fact.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote A\i dvertise it!\rdblquote  \par
\tab\i0\ldblquote Of course. Broadcast the danger. Explain that you will set up a new research institute on the moon, if Earth\rquote s population chooses not to allow this sort of thing to go on upon Earth, but stress the danger to the possible applicants by all means.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lanning said, \ldblquote For God\rquote s sake, why?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Because the spice of danger will add to the lure. Do you think nuclear technology involves no danger and spationautics no peril? Has your lure of absolute security been doing the trick for you? Has it helped you to cater to the Frankenstein complex you all despise so? Try something else then, something that has worked in other fields.\rdblquote  \par
\tab There was a sound from beyond the door that led to Calvin\rquote s personal laboratories. It was the chiming sound of Lenny. \par
\tab The robopsychologist broke off instantly, listening. She said, \ldblquote Excuse me. I think Lenny is calling me.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Can it call you?\rdblquote  said Lanning. \par
\tab\ldblquote I said I\rquote ve managed to teach it a few words.\rdblquote  She stepped toward the door, a little flustered. \ldblquote If you will wait for me--\rdblquote  \par
\tab They watched her leave and were silent for a moment. Then Lanning said, \ldblquote Do you think there\rquote s anything to what she says, Peter?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Just possibly, Alfred,\rdblquote  said Bogert. \ldblquote Just possibly. Enough for US to bring the matter up at the directors\rquote  meeting and see what they say. After all, the fat \i is \i0 in the fire. A robot has harmed a human being and knowledge of it is public. As Susan says, we might as well try to turn the matter to our advantage. Of course, I distrust her motives in all this.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote How do you mean?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Even if all she has said is perfectly true, it is only rationalization as far as she is concerned. Her motive in all this is her desire to hold on to this robot. If we pressed her\rdblquote  (and the mathematician smiled at the incongruous literal meaning of the phrase) \ldblquote she would say it was to continue learning techniques of teaching robots, but I think she has found another use for Lenny. A rather unique one that would fit only Susan of all women.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t get your drift.\rdblquote  Bogert said, \ldblquote Did you hear what the robot was calling?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, no, I didn\rquote t quite--\rdblquote  began Lanning, when the door opened suddenly, and both men stopped talking at once. \par
\tab Susan Calvin stepped in again, looking about uncertainly. \ldblquote Have either of you seen--I\rquote m positive I had it somewhere about--Oh, there it is.\rdblquote  \par
\tab She ran to a corner of one bookcase and picked up an object of intricate metal webbery, dumbbell shaped and hollow, with variously shaped metal pieces inside each hollow, just too large to be able to fallout of the webbing. \par
\tab As she picked it up, the metal pieces within moved and struck together, clicking pleasantly. It struck Lanning that the object was a kind of robotic version of a baby rattle. \par
\tab As Susan Calvin opened the door again to pass through, Lenny\rquote s voice chimed again from within. This time, Lanning heard it clearly as it spoke the words Susan Calvin had taught it. \par
\tab In heavenly celeste-like sounds, it called out, \ldblquote Mommie, I want you. I want you, Mommie.\rdblquote  \par
\tab And the footsteps of Susan Calvin could be heard hurrying eagerly across the laboratory floor toward the only kind of baby she could ever have or love. \par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Galley Slave \par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\tab The United States Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation, as defendants in the case, had influence enough to force a closed-doors trial without a jury. \par
\tab Nor did Northeastern University try hard to prevent it. The trustees knew perfectly well how the public might react to any issue involving misbehavior of a robot, however rarefied that misbehavior might be. They also had a clearly visualized notion of how an antirobot riot might become an antiscience riot without warning. \par
\tab The government, as represented in this case by Justice Harlow Shane, was equally anxious for a quiet end to this mess. Both U. S. Robots and the academic world were bad people to antagonize. \par
\tab Justice Shane said, \ldblquote Since neither press, public nor jury is present, gentlemen, let us stand on as little ceremony as we can and get to the facts.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He smiled stiffly as he said this, perhaps without much hope that his request would be effective, and hitched at his robe so that he might sit more comfortably. His face was pleasantly rubicund, his chin round and soft, his nose broad and his eyes light in color and wide-set. All in all, it was not a face with much judicial majesty and the judge knew it. \par
\tab Barnabas H. Goodfellow, Professor of Physics at Northeastern U., was sworn in first, taking the usual vow with an expression that made mincemeat of his name. \par
\tab After the usual opening-gambit questions, Prosecution shoved his hands deep into his pockets and said, \ldblquote When was it, Professor, that the matter of the possible employ of Robot EZ-27 was first brought to your attention, and how?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Professor Goodfellow\rquote s small and angular face set itself into an uneasy expression, scarcely more benevolent than the one it replaced. He said, \ldblquote I have had professional contact and some social acquaintance with Dr. Alfred Lanning, Director of Research at U. S. Robots. I was inclined to listen with some tolerance then when I received a rather strange suggestion from him on the third of March of last year--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Of 2033?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s right.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Excuse me for interrupting. Please proceed.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The professor nodded frostily, scowled to fix the facts in his mind, and began to speak. \par
\par
\tab Professor Goodfellow looked at the robot with a certain uneasiness. It had been carried into the basement supply room in a crate, in accordance with the regulations governing the shipment of robots from place to place on the Earth\rquote s surface. \par
\tab He knew it was coming; it wasn\rquote t that he was unprepared. From the moment of Dr. Lanning\rquote s first phone call on March 3, he had felt himself giving way to the other\rquote s persuasiveness, and now, as an inevitable result, he found himself face to face with a robot. \par
\tab It looked uncommonly large as it stood within arm\rquote s reach. Alfred Lanning cast a hard glance of his own at the robot, as though making certain it had not been damaged in transit. Then he turned his ferocious eyebrows and his mane of white hair in the professor\rquote s direction. \par
\tab\ldblquote This is Robot EZ-27, first of its model to be available for public use.\rdblquote  He turned to the robot. \ldblquote This is Professor Goodfellow, Easy.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Easy spoke impassively, but with such suddenness that the professor shied. \ldblquote Good afternoon, Professor.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Easy stood seven feet tall and had the general proportions of a man--always the prime selling point of U. S. Robots. That and the possession of the basic patents on the positronic brain had given them an actual monopoly on robots and a near-monopoly on computing machines in general. \par
\tab The two men who had uncrated the robot had left now and the professor looked from Lanning to the robot and back to Lanning. \ldblquote It is harmless, I\rquote m sure.\rdblquote  He didn\rquote t sound sure. \par
\tab\ldblquote More harmless than I am,\rdblquote  said Lanning. \ldblquote I could be goaded into striking you. Easy could not be. You know the Three Laws of Robotics, I presume.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, of course,\rdblquote  said Goodfellow. \par
\tab\ldblquote They are built into the positronic patterns of the brain and must be observed. The First Law, the prime rule of robotic existence, safeguards the life and well-being of all humans.\rdblquote  He paused, rubbed at his cheek, then added, \ldblquote It\rquote s something of which we would like to persuade all Earth if we could.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s just that he seems formidable.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Granted. But whatever he seems, you\rquote ll find that he \i is \i0 useful.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m not sure in what way. Our conversations were not very helpful in that respect. Still, I agreed to look at the object and I\rquote m doing it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We\rquote ll do more than look, Professor. Have you brought a book?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I have.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote May I see it?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Professor Goodfellow reached down without actually taking his eyes off the metal-in-human-shape that confronted him. From the briefcase at his feet, he withdrew a book. \par
\tab Lanning held out his hand for it and looked at the backstrip. \i\ldblquote Physical Chemistry of Electrolytes \i0 in \i Solution. \i0 Fair enough, sir. You selected this yourself, at random. It was no suggestion of mine, this particular text. Am I right?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lanning passed the book to Robot EZ-27. \par
\par
\tab The professor jumped a little. \ldblquote No! That\rquote s a valuable book!\rdblquote  Lanning raised his eyebrows and they looked like shaggy coconut icing. He said, \ldblquote Easy has no intention of tearing the book in two as a feat of strength, I assure you. It can handle a book as carefully as you or I. Go ahead, Easy.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Thank you, sir,\rdblquote  said Easy. Then, turning its metal bulk slightly, it added, \ldblquote With your permission, Professor Goodfellow.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The professor stared, then said, \ldblquote Yes--yes, of course.\rdblquote  \par
\tab With a slow and steady manipulation of metal fingers, Easy turned the pages of the book, glancing at the left page, then the right; turning the page, glancing left, then right; turning the page and so on for minute after minute. \par
\tab The sense of its power seemed to dwarf even the large cement-walled room in which they stood and to reduce the two human watchers to something considerably less than life-size. \par
\tab Goodfellow muttered, \ldblquote The light isn\rquote t very good.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It will do.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Then, rather more sharply, \ldblquote But what is he doing?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Patience, sir.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The last page was turned eventually. Lanning asked, \ldblquote Well, Easy?\rdblquote  \par
\tab The robot said, \ldblquote It is a most accurate book and there is little to which I can point. On line 22 of page 27, the word \lquote positive\rquote  is spelled p-o-i-s-t-i-v-e. The comma in line 6 of page 32 is superfluous, whereas one should have been used on line 13 of page 54. The plus sign in equation XIV-2 on page 337 should be a minus sign if it is to be consistent with the previous equations--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Wait! Wait!\rdblquote  cried the professor. \ldblquote What is he doing?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Doing?\rdblquote  echoed Lanning in sudden irascibility. \ldblquote Why, man, he has already done it! He has proofread that book.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Proofread it?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes. In the short time it took him to turn those pages, \i he \i0 caught every mistake in spelling, grammar and punctuation. He has noted errors in word order and detected inconsistencies. And he will retain the information, letter-perfect, indefinitely.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The professor\rquote s mouth was open. He walked rapidly away from Lanning and Easy and as rapidly back. He folded his arms across his chest and stared at them. Finally he said, \ldblquote You mean this is a proofreading robot?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lanning nodded. \ldblquote Among other things.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But why do you show it to me?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote So that you might help me persuade the university to obtain it for use.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote To read proof?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Among other things,\rdblquote  Lanning repeated patiently. \par
\tab The professor drew his pinched face together in a kind of sour disbelief. \ldblquote But this is ridiculous!\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Why?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The university could never afford to buy this half-ton--it must weigh that at least--this half-ton proofreader.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Proofreading is not all it will do. It will prepare reports from outlines, fill out forms, serve as an accurate memory-file, grade papers--\rdblquote  \par
\tab All picayune!\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab Lanning said, \ldblquote Not at all, as I can show you in a moment. But I think we can discuss this more comfortably in your office, if you have no objection.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No, of course not,\rdblquote  began the professor mechanically and took a half-step as though to turn. Then he snapped out, \ldblquote But the robot--we can\rquote t take the robot. Really, Doctor, you\rquote ll have to crate it up again.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Time enough. We can leave Easy here.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Unattended?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Why not? He knows he is to stay. Professor Goodfellow, it is necessary to understand that a robot is far more reliable than a human being.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I would be responsible for any damage--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote There will be no damage. I guarantee that. Look, it\rquote s after hours. You expect no one here, I imagine, before tomorrow morning. The truck and my two men are outside. U. S. Robots will take any responsibility that may arise. None will. Call it a demonstration of the reliability of the robot.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The professor allowed himself to be led out of the storeroom. Nor did he look entirely comfortable in his own office, five stories up. \par
\tab He dabbed at the line of droplets along the upper half of his forehead with a white handkerchief. \par
\tab\ldblquote As you know very well, Dr. Lanning, there are laws against the use of robots on Earth\rquote s surface,\rdblquote  he pointed out. \par
\tab\ldblquote The laws, Professor Goodfellow, are not simple ones. Robots may not be used on public thoroughfares or within public edifices. They may not be used on private grounds or within private structures except under certain restrictions that usually turn out to be prohibitive. The university, however, is a large and privately owned institution that usually receives preferential treatment. If the robot is used only in a specific room for only academic purposes, if certain other restrictions are observed and if the men and women having occasion to enter the room cooperate fully, we may remain within the law.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But all that trouble just to read proof?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The uses would be infinite. Professor. Robotic labor has so far been used only to relieve physical drudgery. Isn\rquote t there such a thing as mental drudgery? When a professor capable of the most useful creative thought is forced to spend two weeks painfully checking the spelling of lines of print and I offer you a machine that can do it in thirty minutes, is that picayune?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But the price--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The price need not bother you. You cannot buy EZ-27. U. S. Robots does not sell its products. But the university can lease EZ-27 for a thousand dollars a year--considerably less than the cost of a single microwave spectograph continuous-recording attachment.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Goodfellow looked stunned. Lanning followed up his advantage by saying, \ldblquote I only ask that you put it up to whatever group makes the decisions here. I would be glad to speak to them if they want more information.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  Goodfellow said doubtfully, \ldblquote I can bring it up at next week\rquote s Senate meeting. I can\rquote t promise that will do any good, though.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Naturally,\rdblquote  said Lanning. \par
\par
\tab The Defense Attorney was short and stubby and carried himself rather portentously, a stance that had the effect of accentuating his double chin. He stared at Professor Goodfellow, once that witness had been handed over, and said, \ldblquote You agreed rather readily, did you not?\rdblquote  \par
\tab The Professor said briskly, \ldblquote I suppose I was anxious to be rid of Dr. Lanning. I would have agreed to anything.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote With the intention of forgetting about it after he left?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Nevertheless, you did present the matter to a meeting of the Executive Board of the University Senate.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, I did.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote So that you agreed in good faith with Dr. Lanning\rquote s suggestions. You weren\rquote t just going along with a gag. You actually agreed enthusiastically, did you not?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I merely followed ordinary procedures.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote As a matter of fact, you weren\rquote t as upset about the robot as you now claim you were. You know the Three Laws of Robotics and you knew them at the time of your interview with Dr. Lanning.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well, yes.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And you were perfectly willing to leave a robot at large and unattended.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Dr. Lanning assured me--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Surely you would never have accepted his assurance if you had had the slightest doubt that the robot might be in the least dangerous.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The professor began frigidly, \ldblquote I had every faith in the word--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That is all,\rdblquote  said Defense abruptly. \par
\tab As Professor Goodfellow, more than a bit ruffled, stood down, Justice Shane leaned forward and said, \ldblquote Since I am not a robotics man myself, I would appreciate knowing precisely what the Three Laws of Robotics are. Would Dr. Lanning quote them for the benefit of the court?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Dr. Lanning looked startled. He had been virtually bumping heads with the gray-haired woman at his side. He rose to his feet now and the woman looked up, too--expressionlessly. \par
\tab Dr. Lanning said, \ldblquote Very well, Your Honor.\rdblquote  He paused as though about to launch into an oration and said, with laborious clarity, \ldblquote First Law: a robot may not injure a human being, or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm. Second Law: a robot must obey the orders given it by human beings, except where such orders would conflict with the First Law. Third Law: a robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Laws.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I see,\rdblquote  said the judge, taking rapid notes. \ldblquote These Laws are built into every robot, are they?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Into every one. That will be borne out by any roboticist.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And into Robot EZ-27 specifically?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, Your Honor.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You will probably be required to repeat those statements under oath.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I am ready to do so, Your Honor.\rdblquote  He sat down again. \par
\tab Dr. Susan Calvin, robopsychologist-in-chief for U. S. Robots, who was the gray-haired woman sitting next to Lanning, looked at her titular superior without favor, but then she showed favor to no human being. She said, \ldblquote Was Goodfellow\rquote s testimony accurate, \par
\tab Alfred?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Essentially,\rdblquote  muttered Lanning. \ldblquote He wasn\rquote t as nervous as all that about the robot and he was anxious enough to talk business with me when he heard the price. But there doesn\rquote t seem to be any drastic distortion.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Dr. Calvin said thoughtfully, \ldblquote It might have been wise to put the price higher than a thousand.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote We were anxious to place Easy.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I know. Too anxious, perhaps. They\rquote ll try to make it look as \par
\tab though we had an ulterior motive.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lanning looked exasperated. \ldblquote We did. I admitted that at the University Senate meeting.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote They can make it look as if we had one beyond the one we admitted.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Scott Robertson, son of the founder of U. S. Robots and still owner of a majority of the stock, leaned over from Dr. Calvin\rquote s other side and said in a kind of explosive whisper, \ldblquote Why can\rquote t you get Easy to talk so we\rquote ll know where we\rquote re at?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You know he can\rquote t talk about it, Mr. Robertson.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Make him. You\rquote re the psychologist, Dr. Calvin. \i Make \i0 him.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote If I\rquote m the psychologist, Mr. Robertson,\rdblquote  said Susan Calvin coldly, \ldblquote let me make the decisions. My robot will not be \i made \i0 to do anything at the price of his well-being.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Robertson frowned and might have answered, but Justice Shane was tapping his gavel in a polite sort of way and they grudgingly fell silent. \par
\tab Francis J. Hart, head of the Department of English and Dean of Graduate Studies, was on the stand. He was a plump man, meticulously dressed in dark clothing of a conservative cut, and possessing several strands of hair traversing the pink top of his cranium. He sat well back in the witness chair with his hands folded neatly in his lap and displaying, from time to time, a tight-lipped smile. \par
\tab He said, \ldblquote My first connection with the matter of the Robot EZ-27 was on the occasion of the session of the University Senate Executive Committee at which the subject was introduced by Professor Goodfellow. Thereafter, on the tenth of April of last year, we held a special meeting on the subject, during which I was in the chair.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Were minutes kept of the meeting of the Executive Committee? Of the special meeting, that is?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well, no. It was a rather unusual meeting.\rdblquote  The dean smiled briefly. \ldblquote We thought it might remain confidential.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What transpired at the meeting?\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab Dean Hart was not entirely comfortable as chairman of that meeting. Nor did the other members assembled seem completely calm. Only Dr. Lanning appeared at peace with himself. His tall, gaunt figure and the shock of white hair that crowned him reminded Hart of portraits he had seen of Andrew Jackson. \par
\tab Samples of the robot\rquote s work lay scattered along the central regions of the table and the reproduction of a graph drawn by the robot was now in the hands of Professor Minott of Physical Chemistry. The chemist\rquote s lips were pursed in obvious approval. \par
\tab Hart cleared his throat and said, \ldblquote There seems no doubt that the robot can perform certain routine tasks with adequate competence. I have gone over these, for instance, just before coming in and there is very little to find fault with.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He picked up a long sheet of printing, some three times as long as the average book page. It was a sheet of galley proof, designed to be corrected by authors before the type was set up in page form. Along both of the wide margins of the galley were proofmarks, neat and superbly legible. Occasionally, a word of print was crossed out and a new word substituted in the margin in characters so fine and regular it might easily have been print itself. Some of the corrections were blue to indicate the original mistake had been the author\rquote s, a few in red, where the printer had been wrong. \par
\tab\ldblquote Actually,\rdblquote  said Lanning, \ldblquote there is less than very little to find fault with. I should say there is nothing at all to find fault with, Dr. Hart. I\rquote m sure the corrections are perfect, insofar as the original manuscript was. If the manuscript against which this galley was corrected was at fault in a matter of fact rather than of English, the robot is not competent to correct it.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote We accept that. However, the robot corrected word order on occasion and I don\rquote t think the rules of English are sufficiently hidebound for US to be sure that in each case the robot\rquote s choice was the correct one.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Easy\rquote s positronic brain,\rdblquote  said Lanning, showing large teeth as he smiled, \ldblquote has been molded by the contents of all the standard works on the subject. I\rquote m sure you cannot point to a case where the robot\rquote s choice was definitely the incorrect one.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Professor Minott looked up from the graph he still held. \ldblquote The question in my mind, Dr. Lanning, is why we need a robot at all, with all the difficulties in public relations that would entail. The science of automation has surely reached the point where your company could design a machine, an ordinary computer of a type known and accepted by the public, that would correct galleys.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I am sure we could,\rdblquote  said Lanning stiffly, \ldblquote but such a machine would require that the galleys be translated into special symbols or, at the least, transcribed on tapes. Any corrections would emerge in symbols. You would need to keep men employed translating words to symbols, symbols to words. Furthermore, such a computer could do no other job. It couldn\rquote t prepare the graph you hold in your hand, for instance.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Minott grunted. \par
\par
\tab Lanning went on. \ldblquote The hallmark of the positronic robot is its flexibility. It can do a number of jobs. It is designed like a man so that it can use all the tools and machines that have, after all, been designed to be used by a man. It can talk to you and you can talk to it. You can actually reason with it up to a point. Compared to even a simple robot, an ordinary computer with a non-positronic brain is only a heavy adding machine.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Goodfellow looked up and said, \ldblquote If we all talk and reason with the robot, what are the chances of our confusing it? I suppose it doesn\rquote t have the capability of absorbing an infinite amount of data.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No, it hasn\rquote t. But it should last five years with ordinary use. It will know when it will require clearing, and the company will do the job without charge.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The \i company \i0 will?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes. The company reserves the right to service the robot outside the ordinary course of its duties. It is one reason we retain control of our positronic robots and lease rather than sell them. In the pursuit of its ordinary functions, any robot can be directed by any man. Outside its ordinary functions, a robot requires expert handling, and that we can give it. For instance, any of you might clear an EZ robot to an extent by telling it to forget this item or that. But you would be almost certain to phrase the order in such a way as to cause it to forget too much or too little. We would detect such tampering, because we have built-in safeguards. However, since there is no need for clearing the robot in its ordinary work, or for doing other useless things, this raises no problem.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab Dean Hart touched his head as though to make sure his carefully cultivated strands lay evenly distributed and said, \ldblquote You are anxious to have us take the machine. Yet surely it is a losing proposition for U. S. Robots. One thousand a year is a ridiculously low price. Is it that you hope through this to rent other such machines to other universities at a more reasonable price?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Certainly that\rquote s a fair hope,\rdblquote  said Lanning. \par
\tab\ldblquote But even so, the number of machines you could rent would be limited. I doubt if you could make it a paying proposition.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lanning put his elbows on the table and earnestly leaned forward. \ldblquote Let me put it bluntly, gentlemen. Robots cannot be used on Earth, except in certain special cases, because of prejudice against them on the part of the public. U. S. Robots is a highly successful corporation with our extraterrestrial and spaceflight markets alone, to say nothing of our computer subsidiaries. However, we are concerned with more than profits alone. It is our firm belief that the use of robots on Earth itself would mean a better life for all eventually, even if a certain amount of economic dislocation resulted at first. \par
\tab\ldblquote The labor unions are naturally against us, but surely we may expect cooperation from the large universities. The robot, Easy, will help you by relieving you of scholastic drudgery--by assuming, if you permit it, the role of galley slave for you. Other universities and research institutions will follow your lead, and if it works out, then perhaps other robots of other types may be placed and the public\rquote s objections to them broken down by stages.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Minott murmured, \ldblquote Today Northeastern University, tomorrow the world.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Angrily, Lanning whispered to Susan Calvin, \ldblquote I wasn\rquote t nearly that eloquent and they weren\rquote t nearly that reluctant. At a thousand a year, they were jumping to get Easy. Professor Minott told me he\rquote d never seen as beautiful a job as that graph he was holding and there was no mistake on the galley or anywhere else. Hart admitted it freely.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The severe vertical lines on Dr. Calvin\rquote s face did not soften. \ldblquote You should have demanded more money than they could pay, Alfred, and let them beat you down.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Maybe,\rdblquote  he grumbled. \par
\tab Prosecution was not quite done with Professor Hart. \ldblquote After Dr. Lanning left, did you vote on whether to accept Robot EZ-27?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, we did.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote With what result?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote In favor of acceptance, by majority vote.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What would you say influenced the vote?\rdblquote  Defense objected immediately. \par
\tab Prosecution rephrased the question. \ldblquote What influenced you, personally, in your individual vote? You did vote in favor, I think.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I voted in favor, yes. I did so largely because I was impressed by Dr. Lanning\rquote s feeling that it was our duty as members of the world\rquote s intellectual leadership to allow robotics to help Man in the solution of his problems.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote In other words, Dr. Lanning talked you into it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s his job. He did it very well.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Your witness.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Defense strode up to the witness chair and surveyed Professor Hart for a long moment. He said, \ldblquote In reality, you were all pretty eager to have Robot EZ-27 in your employ, weren\rquote t you?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote We thought that if it could do the work, it might be useful.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\i\ldblquote If \i0 it could do the work? I understand you examined the samples of Robot EZ-27\rquote s original work with particular care on the day of the meeting which you have just described.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, I did. Since the machine\rquote s work dealt primarily with the handling of the English language, and since that is my field of competence, it seemed logical that I be the one chosen to examine the work.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Very good. Was there anything on display on the table at the time of the meeting which was less than satisfactory? I have all the material here as exhibits. Can you point to a single unsatisfactory item?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s a simple question. Was there one single solitary unsatisfactory item? You inspected it. Was there?\rdblquote  \par
\tab The English professor frowned. \ldblquote There wasn\rquote t.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I also have some samples of work done by Robot EZ-27 during the course of his fourteen-month employ at Northeastern. Would you examine these and tell me if there is anything wrong with them in even one particular?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Hart snapped, \ldblquote When he did make a mistake, it was a beauty.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Answer my question,\rdblquote  thundered Defense, \ldblquote and only the question I am putting to you! Is there anything wrong with the material?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Dean Hart looked cautiously at each item. \ldblquote Well, nothing.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Barring the matter concerning which we are here engaged. do you know of any mistake on the part of EZ-27?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Barring the matter for which this trial is being held, no.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Defense cleared his throat as though to signal end of paragraph. He said. \ldblquote Now about the vote concerning whether Robot EZ-27 was to be employed or not. You said there was a majority in favor. What was the actual vote?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Thirteen to one, as I remember.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Thirteen to one! More than just a majority, wouldn\rquote t you say?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, sir!\rdblquote All the pedant in Dean Hart was aroused. \ldblquote In the English language, the word \lquote majority\rquote  means \lquote more than half.\rquote  Thirteen out of fourteen is a majority, nothing more.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But an almost unanimous one.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote A majority all the same!\rdblquote  \par
\tab Defense switched ground. \ldblquote And who was the lone holdout?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Dean Hart looked acutely uncomfortable. \ldblquote Professor Simon Ninheimer.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Defense pretended astonishment. \ldblquote Professor Ninheimer? The head of the Department of Sociology?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, Sir.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The \i plaintiff?\i0\rdblquote\i\par
\i0\tab\ldblquote Yes, sir.\rdblquote  \par
\i\tab\i0 Defense pursed his lips. \ldblquote In other words, it turns out that the man bringing the action for payment of $750,000 damages against my client. United States Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation was the one who from the beginning opposed the use of the robot--although everyone else on the Executive Committee of the University Senate was persuaded that it was a good idea.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote He voted against the motion, as was his right.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You didn\rquote t mention in your description of the meeting any remarks made by Professor Ninheimer. Did he make any?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I think he spoke.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You \i think?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\i0\ldblquote Well, he \i did \i0 speak.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Against using the robot?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Was he violent about it?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Dean Hart paused. \ldblquote He was vehement.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Defense grew confidential. \ldblquote How long have you known Professor Ninheimer, Dean Hart?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote About twelve years.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Reasonably well?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I should say so, yes.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Knowing him, then, would you say he was the kind of man who might continue to bear resentment against a robot, all the more so because an adverse vote had--\rdblquote  \par
\tab Prosecution drowned out the remainder of the question with an indignant and vehement objection of his own. Defense motioned the witness down and Justice Shane called luncheon recess. \par
\par
\tab Robertson mangled his sandwich. The corporation would not founder for loss of three-quarters of a million, but the loss would do it no particular good. He was conscious, moreover, that there would be a much more costly long-term setback in public relations. \par
\tab He said sourly, \ldblquote Why all this business about how Easy got into the university? What do they hope to gain?\rdblquote  \par
\tab The Attorney for Defense said quietly, \ldblquote A court action is like a chess game, MI. Robertson. The winner is usually the one who can see more moves ahead, and my friend at the prosecutor\rquote s table is no beginner. They can show damage; that\rquote s no problem. Their main effort lies in anticipating our defense. They must be counting on us to try to show that Easy couldn\rquote t possibly have committed the offense--because of the Laws of Robotics.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote All right,\rdblquote  said Robertson, \ldblquote that \i is \i0 our defense. An absolutely airtight one.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote To a robotics engineer. Not necessarily to a judge. They\rquote re setting themselves up a position from which they can demonstrate that EZ-27\i  \i0 was no ordinary robot. It was the first of its type to be offered to the public. It was an experimental model that needed field-testing and the university was the only decent way to provide such testing. That would look plausible in the light of Dr. Lanning\rquote s strong efforts to place the robot and the willingness of U. S. Robots to lease it for so little. The prosecution would then argue that the field-test proved Easy to have been a failure. Now do you see the purpose of what\rquote s been going on?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But EZ-27\i  \i0 was a perfectly good model,\rdblquote  Argued Robertson. \ldblquote It was the twenty-seventh in production.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Which is really a bad point,\rdblquote  said Defense somberly. \ldblquote What was wrong with the first twenty-six? Obviously something. Why shouldn\rquote t there be something wrong with the twenty-seventh, too?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote There was nothing wrong with the first twenty-six except that they weren\rquote t complex enough for the task. These were the first positronic brains of the sort to be constructed and it was rather hit-and-miss to begin with. But the Three Laws held in all of them! No robot is so imperfect that the Three Laws don\rquote t hold.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Dr. Lanning has explained this to me, Mr. Robertson, and I am willing to take his word for it. The judge, however, may not be. We are expecting a decision from an honest and intelligent man who knows no robotics and thus may be led astray. For instance, if you or Dr. Lanning or Dr. Calvin were to say on the stand that any positronic brains were constructed \lquote hit-and-miss,\rquote  as you just did, prosecution would tear you apart in cross-examination. Nothing would salvage our case. So that\rquote s something to avoid.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Robertson growled, \ldblquote If only Easy would talk.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Defense shrugged. \ldblquote A robot is incompetent as a witness, so that would do us no good.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote At least we\rquote d know some of the facts. We\rquote d know how it came to do such a thing.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Susan Calvin fired up. A dullish red touched her cheeks and her voice had a trace of warmth in it. \ldblquote We \i know \i0 how Easy came to do it. It was ordered to! I\rquote ve explained this to counsel and I\rquote ll explain it to you now.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Ordered to by whom?\rdblquote  asked Robertson in honest astonishment. (No one ever told him anything, he thought resentfully. These research people considered \i themselves \i0 the owners of U. S. Robots, by God!) \par
\tab\ldblquote By the plaintiff,\rdblquote  said Dr. Calvin. \ldblquote In heaven\rquote s name, why?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t know why yet. Perhaps just that we might be sued, that he might gain some cash.\rdblquote  There were blue glints in her eyes as she said that. \par
\tab\ldblquote Then why doesn\rquote t Easy say so?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Isn\rquote t that obvious? It\rquote s been ordered to keep quiet about the matter.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Why should that be obvious?\rdblquote  demanded Robertson truculently. \ldblquote Well, it\rquote s obvious to me. Robot psychology is my profession. If \par
\tab Easy will not answer questions about the matter directly, he will answer questions on the fringe of the matter. By measuring increased hesitation in his answers as the central question is approached, by measuring the area of blankness and the intensity of counterpotentials set up, it is possible to tell with scientific precision that his troubles are the result of an order not to talk, with its strength based on First Law. In other words, he\rquote s been told that if he talks, harm will be done a human being. Presumably harm to the unspeakable Professor Ninheimer, the plaintiff, who, to the robot, would seem a human being.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well, then,\rdblquote  said Robertson, \ldblquote can\rquote t you explain that if he keeps quiet, harm will be done to U. S. Robots?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote U. S. Robots is not a human being and the First Law of Robotics does not recognize a corporation as a person the way ordinary laws do. Besides, it would be dangerous to try to lift this particular sort of inhibition. The person who laid it on could lift it off least dangerously, because the robot\rquote s motivations in that respect are centered on that person. Any other course--\rdblquote  She shook her head and grew almost impassioned. \ldblquote I won\rquote t let the robot be damaged!\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lanning interrupted with the air of bringing sanity to the problem. \ldblquote It seems to me that we have only to prove a robot incapable of the act of which Easy is accused. We can do that.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Exactly,\rdblquote  said Defense, in annoyance. \i\ldblquote You \i0 can do that. The only witnesses capable of testifying to Easy\rquote s condition and to the nature of Easy\rquote s state of mind are employees of U. S. Robots. The judge can\rquote t possibly accept their testimony as unprejudiced.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote How can he deny expert testimony?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote By refusing to be convinced by it. That\rquote s his right as the judge. Against the alternative that a man like Professor Ninheimer deliberately set about ruining his own reputation, even for a sizable sum of money, the judge isn\rquote t going to accept the technicalities of your engineers. The judge is a man, after all. If he has to choose between a man doing an impossible thing and a robot doing an impossible thing, he\rquote s quite likely to decide in favor of the man.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote A man \i can \i0 do an impossible thing,\rdblquote  said Lanning, \ldblquote because we don\rquote t know all the complexities of the human mind and we don\rquote t know what, in a given human mind, is impossible and what is not. We do know what is really impossible to a robot.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well, we\rquote ll see if we can\rquote t convince the judge of that,\rdblquote  Defense replied wearily. \par
\tab\ldblquote If all you say is so,\rdblquote  rumbled Robertson, \ldblquote I don\rquote t see how you can.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote We\rquote ll see. It\rquote s good to know and be aware of the difficulties involved, but let\rquote s not be \i too \i0 downhearted. I\rquote ve tried to look ahead a few moves in the chess game, too.\rdblquote  With a stately nod in the direction of the robopsychologist, he added, \i\ldblquote With \i0 the help of the good lady here.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Lanning looked from one to the other and said, \ldblquote What the devil is this?\rdblquote  \par
\tab But the bailiff thrust his head into the room and announced somewhat breathlessly that the trial was about to resume. \par
\tab They took their seats, examining the man who had started all the trouble. \par
\tab Simon Ninheimer owned a fluffy head of sandy hair, a face that narrowed past a beaked nose toward a pointed chin, and a habit of sometimes hesitating before key words in his conversation that gave him an air of a seeker after an almost unbearable precision. When he said, \ldblquote The Sun rises in the--uh--east, 11 one was certain he had given due consideration to the possibility that it might at some time rise in the west. \par
\tab Prosecution said, \ldblquote Did you oppose employment of Robot EZ-27 by the university?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I did, sir.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Why was that?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I did not feel that we understood the--uh--motives of U. S. Robots thoroughly. I mistrusted their anxiety to place the robot with us.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Did you feel that it was capable of doing the work that it was allegedly designed to do?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I know for a fact that it was not.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Would you state your reasons?\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab Simon Ninheimer\rquote s book, entitled \i Social Tensions Involved in Space-Flight and Their Resolution, \i0 had been eight years in the making. Ninheimer\rquote s search for precision was not confined to his habits of speech, and in a subject like sociology, almost inherently imprecise, it left him breathless. \par
\tab Even with the material in galley proofs, he felt no sense of completion. Rather the reverse, in fact. Staring at the long strips of print, he felt only the itch to tear the lines of type apart and rearrange them differently. \par
\tab Jim Baker, Instructor and soon to be Assistant Professor of Sociology, found Ninheimer, three days after the first batch of galleys had arrived from the printer, staring at the handful of paper in abstraction. The galleys came in three copies: one for Ninheimer to proofread, one for Baker to proofread independently, and a third, marked \ldblquote Original,\rdblquote  which was to receive the final corrections, a combination of those made by Ninheimer and by Baker, after a conference at which possible conflicts and disagreements were ironed out. This had been their policy on the several papers on which they had collaborated in the past three years and it worked well. \par
\tab Baker, young and ingratiatingly soft-voiced, had his own copies of the galleys in his hand. He said eagerly, \ldblquote I\rquote ve done the first chapter and it contains some typographical beauts.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The first chapter always has them,\rdblquote  said Ninheimer distantly. \ldblquote Do you want to go over it now?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Ninheimer brought his eyes to grave focus on Baker. \ldblquote I haven\rquote t done anything on the galleys, Jim. I don\rquote t think I\rquote ll bother.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Baker looked confused. \ldblquote Not bother?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Ninheimer pursed his lips. \ldblquote I\rquote ve asked about the--uh--workload of the machine. After all, he was originally--uh--promoted as a proofreader. They\rquote ve set a schedule.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The \i machine? \i0 You mean Easy?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I believe that is the foolish name they gave it.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But, Dr. Ninheimer, I thought you were staying clear of it\rdblquote\lquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I seem to be the only one doing so. Perhaps I ought to take my share of the--uh--advantage.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Oh. Well, I seem to have wasted time on this first chapter, then,\rdblquote  said the younger man ruefully. \par
\tab\ldblquote Not wasted. We can compare the machine\rquote s result with yours as a check.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote If you want to, but--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I doubt that we\rquote ll find anything wrong with Easy\rquote s work. It\rquote s supposed never to have made a mistake.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I dare say,\rdblquote  said Ninheimer dryly. \par
\par
\tab The first chapter was brought in again by Baker four days later. This time it was Ninheimer\rquote s copy, fresh from the special annex that had been built to house Easy and the equipment it used. \par
\tab Baker was jubilant. \ldblquote Dr. Ninheimer, it not only caught everything I caught--it found a dozen errors I missed! The whole thing took it twelve minutes!\rdblquote  \par
\tab Ninheimer looked over the sheaf, with the neatly printed marks and symbols in the margins. He said, \ldblquote It is not as complete as you and I would have made it. We would have entered an insert on Suzuki\rquote s work on the neurological effects of low gravity.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You mean his paper in \i Sociological Reviews?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Of course.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\i0\ldblquote Well, you can\rquote t expect impossibilities of Easy. It can\rquote t read the literature for us.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I realize that. As a matter of fact, I have prepared the insert. I will see the machine and make certain it knows how to--uh--handle inserts.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It will know.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I prefer to make certain.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Ninheimer had to make an appointment to see Easy, and then could get nothing better than fifteen minutes in the late evening. \par
\tab But the fifteen minutes turned out to be ample. Robot EZ-27 understood the matter of inserts at once. \par
\tab Ninheimer found himself uncomfortable at close quarters with the robot for the first time. Almost automatically, as though it were human, he found himself asking, \ldblquote Are you happy with your work?\rquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Most happy, Professor Ninheimer,\rdblquote  said Easy solemnly, the photocells that were its eyes gleaming their normal deep red. \par
\tab\ldblquote You know me?\rdblquote\i\par
\tab\i0\ldblquote From the fact that you present me with additional material to include in the galleys, it follows that you are the author. The author\rquote s name, of course, is at the head of each sheet of galley proof.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I see. You make--uh--deductions, then. Tell me\rdblquote --he couldn\rquote t resist the question--\rdblquote what do you think of the book so far?\rquote  \par
\tab Easy said, \ldblquote I find it very pleasant to work with.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Pleasant? That is an odd word for a--uh--a mechanism without emotion. I\rquote ve been told you have no emotion.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The words of your book go in accordance with my circuits,\rdblquote  Easy explained. \ldblquote They set up little or no counterpotentials. It is in my brain paths to translate this mechanical fact into a word such as \lquote pleasant.\rquote  The emotional context is fortuitous.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I see. Why do you find the book pleasant?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It deals with human beings, Professor, and not with inorganic materials or mathematical symbols. Your book attempts to understand human beings and to help increase human happiness.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And this is what you try to do and so my book goes in accordance with your circuits? Is that it?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That is it, Professor.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The fifteen minutes were up. Ninheimer left and went to the university library, which was on the point of closing. He kept them open long enough to find an elementary text on robotics. He took it home with him. \par
\tab Except for occasional insertion of late material, the galleys went to Easy and from him to the publishers with little intervention from Ninheimer at first--and none at all later. \par
\tab Baker said, a little uneasily, \ldblquote It almost gives me a feeling of uselessness.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It should give you a feeling of having time to begin a new project,\rdblquote  said Ninheimer, without looking up from the notations he was making in the current issue of \i Social Science Abstracts. \par
\tab\i0\ldblquote I\rquote m just not used to it. I keep worrying about the galleys. It\rquote s silly, I know.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It is.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The other day I got a couple of sheets before Easy sent them off to--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What!\rdblquote  Ninheimer looked up, scowling. The copy of \i Abstracts \i0 slid shut. \ldblquote Did you disturb the machine at its work?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Only for a minute. Everything was all right. Oh, it changed one word. You referred to something as \lquote criminal\rquote ; it changed the word to \lquote reckless.\rquote  It thought the second adjective fit in better with the context.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Ninheimer grew thoughtful. \ldblquote What did you think?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You know, I agreed with it. I let it stand.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Ninheimer turned in his swivel-chair to face his young associate. \ldblquote See here, I wish you wouldn\rquote t do this again. If I am to use the machine, I wish the--uh--full advantage of it. If I am to use it and lose your--uh--services anyway because you supervise it when the whole point is that it requires no supervision, I gain nothing. Do you \i see?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\i0\ldblquote Yes, Dr. Ninheimer,\rdblquote  said Baker, subdued. The advance copies of \i Social Tensions \i0 arrived in Dr. Ninheimer\rquote s office on the eighth of May. He looked through it briefly, flipping pages and pausing to read a paragraph here and there. Then he put his copies away. \par
\tab As he explained later, he forgot about it. For eight years, he had worked at it, but now, and for months in the past, other interests had engaged him while Easy had taken the load of the book off his shoulders. He did not even think to donate the usual complimentary copy to the university library. Even Baker, who had thrown himself into work and had steered clear of the department head since receiving his rebuke at their last meeting, received no copy. \par
\tab On the sixteenth of June that stage ended. Ninheimer received a phone call and stared at the image in the \lquote plate with surprise. \par
\tab\ldblquote Speidell! Are you in town?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No, sir. I\rquote m in Cleveland.\rdblquote  Speidell\rquote s voice trembled with emotion. \par
\tab\ldblquote Then why the call?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Because I\rquote ve just been looking through your new book! Ninheimer, are you \i mad? \i0 Have you gone \i insane?\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab\i0 Ninheimer stiffened. \ldblquote Is something--uh--wrong?\rdblquote  he asked in alarm. \par
\tab\ldblquote Wrong? I refer you to page 562. What in blazes do you mean by interpreting my work as you do? Where in the paper cited do I make the claim that the criminal personality is nonexistent and that it is the law-enforcement agencies that are the \i true \i0 criminals? Here, let me quote--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Wait! Wait!\rdblquote  cried Ninheimer, trying to find the page. \ldblquote Let me see. Let me see...Good God!\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Speidell, I don\rquote t see how this could have happened. I never wrote this.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But that\rquote s what\rquote s printed! And that distortion isn\rquote t the worst. You look at page 690 and imagine what Ipatiev is going to do to you when he sees the hash you\rquote ve made of his findings! Look, Ninheimer, the book is \i riddled \i0 with this sort of thing. I don\rquote t know what you were thinking of--but there\rquote s nothing to do but get the book off the market. And you\rquote d better be prepared for extensive apologies at the next Association meeting!\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Speidell, listen to me--\rdblquote  But Speidell had flashed off with a force that had the \lquote plate glowing with after-images for fifteen seconds. \par
\tab It was then that Ninheimer went through the book and began marking off passages with red ink. \par
\tab He kept his temper remarkably well when he faced Easy again, but his lips were pale. He passed the book to Easy and said, \ldblquote Will you read the marked passages on pages 562, 631, 664 and 690?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Easy did so in four glances. \ldblquote Yes, Professor Ninheimer.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote This is not as I had it in the original galleys.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, sir. It is not.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Did you change it to read as it now does?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, sir.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Sir, the passages as they read in your version were most uncomplimentary to certain groups of human beings. I felt it advisable to change the wording to avoid doing them harm.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote How \i dared \i0 you do such a thing?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The First Law, Professor, does not let me, through any inaction, allow harm to come to human beings. Certainly, considering your reputation in the world of sociology and the wide circulation your book would receive among scholars, considerable harm would come to a number of the human beings you speak of.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But do you realize the harm that will come to me now?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It was necessary to choose the alternative with less harm.\rdblquote  Professor Ninheimer, shaking with fury, staggered away. It was clear to him that U. S. Robots would have to account to him for this. \par
\par
\tab There was some excitement at the defendants\rquote  table, which increased as Prosecution drove the point home. \par
\tab\ldblquote Then Robot EZ-27 informed you that the reason for its action was based on the First Law of Robotics?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That is correct, sir.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That, in effect, it had no choice?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, sir.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It follows then that U. S. Robots designed a robot that would of necessity rewrite books to accord with its own conceptions of what was right. And yet they palmed it off as simple proofreader. Would you say that?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Defense objected firmly at once, pointing out that the witness was being asked for a decision on a matter in which he had no competence. The judged admonished Prosecution in the usual terms, but there was no doubt that the exchange had sunk home--not least upon the attorney for the Defense. \par
\tab Defense asked for a short recess before beginning cross-examination, using a legal technicality for the purpose that got him five minutes. \par
\tab He leaned over toward Susan Calvin. \ldblquote Is it possible, Dr. Calvin, that Professor Ninheimer is telling the truth and that Easy was motivated by the First Law?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Calvin pressed her lips together, then said, \ldblquote No. It \i isn\rquote t \i0 possible. The last part of Ninheimer\rquote s testimony is deliberate perjury. Easy is not designed to be able to judge matters at the stage of abstraction represented by an advanced textbook on sociology. It would never be able to tell that certain groups of humans would be harmed by a phrase in such a book. Its mind is simply not built for that.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I suppose, though, that we can\rquote t prove this to a layman,\rdblquote  said Defense pessimistically. \par
\tab\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  Admitted Calvin. \ldblquote The proof would be highly complex. Our way out is still what it was. We must prove Ninheimer is lying, and nothing he has said need change our plan of attack.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Very well, Dr. Calvin,\rdblquote  said Defense, \ldblquote I must accept your word in this. We\rquote ll go on as planned.\rdblquote  \par
\tab In the courtroom, the judge\rquote s gavel rose and fell and Dr. Ninheimer took the stand once more. He smiled a little as one who feels his position to be impregnable and rather enjoys the prospect of countering a useless attack. \par
\tab Defense approached warily and began softly. \ldblquote Dr. Ninheimer, do you mean to say that you were completely unaware of these alleged changes in your manuscript until such time as Dr. Speidell called you on the sixteenth of June?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That is correct, sir.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Did you never look at the galleys after Robot EZ-27 had proofread them?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote At first I did, but it seemed to me a useless task. I relied on the claims of U. S. Robots. The absurd--uh--changes were made only in the last quarter of the book after the robot, I presume, had learned enough about sociology--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Never mind your presumptions!\rdblquote  said Defense. \ldblquote I understood your colleague, Dr. Baker, saw the later galleys on at least one occasion. Do you remember testifying to that effect?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, sir. As I said, he told me about seeing one page, and even there, the robot had changed a word.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab Again Defense broke in. \ldblquote Don\rquote t you find it strange, sir, that after over a year of implacable hostility to the robot, after having voted against it in the first place and having refused to put it to any use whatever, you suddenly decided to put your book, your \i magnum opus, \i0 into its hands?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t find that strange. I simply decided that I might as well use the machine.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And you were so confident of Robot EZ-27--all of a sudden--that you didn\rquote t even bother to check your galleys?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I told you I was--uh--persuaded by U. S. Robots\rquote  propaganda.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote So persuaded that when your colleague, Dr. Baker, attempted to check on the robot, you berated him soundly?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I didn\rquote t berate him. I merely did not wish to have him--uh--waste his time. At least, I thought then it was a waste of time. I did not see the significance of that change in a word at the--\rdblquote  \par
\tab Defense said with heavy sarcasm, \ldblquote I have no doubt you were instructed to bring up that point in order that the word-change be entered in the record--\rdblquote  He altered his line to forestall objection and said, \ldblquote The point is that you were extremely angry with Dr. Baker.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No, sir. Not angry.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You didn\rquote t give him a copy of your book when you received it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Simple forgetfulness. I didn\rquote t give the library its copy, either.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Ninheimer smiled cautiously. \ldblquote Professors are notoriously absentminded.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Defense said, \ldblquote Do you find it strange that, after more than a year of perfect work, Robot EZ-27 should go wrong on your book? On a book, that is, which was written by you, who was, of all people, the most implacably hostile to the robot?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote My book was the only sizable work dealing with mankind that it had to face. The Three Laws of Robotics took hold then.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Several times, Dr. Ninheimer,\rdblquote  said Defense, \ldblquote you have tried to sound like an expert on robotics. Apparently you suddenly grew interested in robotics and took out books on the subject from the library. You testified to that effect, did you not?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote One book, sir. That was the result of what seems to me to have been--uh--natural curiosity.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And it enabled you to explain why the robot should, as you allege, have distorted your book?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, sir.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Very convenient. But are you sure your interest in robotics was not intended to enable you to manipulate the robot for your own purposes?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Ninheimer flushed. \ldblquote Certainly not, sir!\rdblquote  Defense\rquote s voice rose. \ldblquote In fact, are you sure the alleged altered passages were not as you had them in the first place?\rdblquote  \par
\tab The sociologist half-rose. \ldblquote That\rquote s--uh--uh--ridiculous! I have the galleys--\rdblquote  \par
\tab He had difficulty speaking and Prosecution rose to insert smoothly, \ldblquote With your permission, Your Honor, I intend to introduce as evidence the set of galleys given by Dr. Ninheimer to Robot EZ-27 and the set of galleys mailed by Robot EZ-27 to the publishers. I will do so now if my esteemed colleague so desires, and will be willing to allow a recess in order that the two sets of galleys may be compared.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab Defense waved his hand impatiently. \ldblquote That is not necessary. My honored opponent can introduce those galleys whenever he chooses. I\rquote m sure they will show whatever discrepancies are claimed by the plaintiff to exist. What I would like to know of the witness, however, is whether he also has in his possession \i Dr. Baker\rquote s \i0 galleys.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Dr. Baker\rquote s galleys?\rdblquote  Ninheimer frowned. He was not yet quite master of himself. \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, Professor! I mean Dr. Baker\rquote s galleys. You testified to the effect that Dr. Baker had received a separate copy of the galleys. I will have the clerk read your testimony if you are suddenly a selective type of amnesiac. Or is it just that professors are, as you say, notoriously absent-minded?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Ninheimer said, \ldblquote I remember Dr. Baker\rquote s galleys. They weren\rquote t necessary once the job was placed in the care of the proofreading machine--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote So you burned them?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No. I put them in the waste basket.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Burned them, dumped them--what\rquote s the difference? The point is you got rid of them.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote There\rquote s nothing wrong--\rdblquote  began Ninheimer weakly. \par
\tab\ldblquote Nothing wrong?\rdblquote  thundered Defense. \ldblquote Nothing wrong except that there is now no way we can check to see if, on certain crucial galley sheets, you might not have substituted a harmless blank one from Dr. Baker\rquote s copy for a sheet in your own copy which you had deliberately mangled in such a way as to force the robot to--\rdblquote  \par
\tab Prosecution shouted a furious objection. Justice Shane leaned forward, his round face doing its best to assume an expression of anger equivalent to the intensity of the emotion felt by the man. \par
\tab The judge said, \ldblquote Do you have any evidence, Counselor, for the extraordinary statement you have just made?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Defense said quietly, \ldblquote No direct evidence, Your Honor. But I would like to point out that, viewed properly, the sudden conversion of the plaintiff from anti-roboticism, his sudden interest in robotics, his refusal to check the galleys or to allow anyone else to check them, his careful neglect to allow anyone to see the book immediately after publication, all very clearly point--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Counselor,\rdblquote  interrupted the judge impatiently, \ldblquote this is not the place for esoteric deductions. The plaintiff is not on trial. Neither are you prosecuting him. I forbid this line of attack and I can only point out that the desperation that must have induced you to do this cannot help but weaken your case. If you have legitimate questions to ask, Counselor, you may continue with your cross-examination. But I warn you against another such exhibition in this courtroom.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I have no further questions, Your Honor.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Robertson whispered heatedly as counsel for the Defense returned to his table, \ldblquote What good did that do, for God\rquote s sake? The judge is dead-set against you now.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Defense replied calmly, \ldblquote But Ninheimer is good and rattled. And we\rquote ve set him up for tomorrow\rquote s move. He\rquote ll be ripe.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Susan Calvin nodded gravely. \par
\par
\tab The rest of Prosecution\rquote s case was mild in comparison. Dr. Baker was called and bore out most of Ninheimer\rquote s testimony. Drs. Speidell and Ipatiev were called, and they expounded most movingly on their shock and dismay at certain quoted passages in Dr. Ninheimer\rquote s book. Both gave their professional opinion that Dr. Ninheimer\rquote s professional reputation had been seriously impaired. \par
\tab The galleys were introduced in evidence, as were copies of the finished book. \par
\tab Defense cross-examined no more that day. Prosecution rested and the trial was recessed till the next morning. \par
\tab Defense made his first motion at the beginning of the proceedings on the second day. He requested that Robot EZ-27 be admitted as a spectator to the proceedings. \par
\tab Prosecution objected at once and Justice Shane called both to the bench. \par
\tab Prosecution said hotly, \ldblquote This is obviously illegal. A robot may not be in any edifice used by the general public.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote This courtroom,\rdblquote  pointed out Defense, \ldblquote is closed to all but those having an immediate connection with the case.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote A large machine of \i known \i0 erratic behavior would disturb my clients and my witnesses by its very presence! It would make hash out of the proceedings.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The judge seemed inclined to agree. He turned to Defense and said rather unsympathetically, \ldblquote What are the reasons for your request?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Defense said, \ldblquote It will be our contention that Robot EZ-27 could not possibly, by the nature of its construction, have behaved as it has been described as behaving. It will be necessary to present a few demonstrations.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Prosecution said, \ldblquote I don\rquote t see the point, Your Honor. Demonstrations conducted by men employed at U. S. Robots are worth little as evidence when U. S. Robots is the defendant.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Your Honor,\rdblquote  said Defense, \ldblquote the validity of any evidence is for you to decide, not for the Prosecuting Attorney. At least, that is my understanding.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Justice Shane, his prerogatives encroached upon, said, \ldblquote Your understanding is correct. Nevertheless, the presence of a robot here does raise important legal questions.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Surely, Your Honor, nothing that should be allowed to override the requirements of justice. If the robot is not present, we are prevented from presenting our only defense.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The judge considered. \ldblquote There would be the question of transporting the robot here.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That is a problem with which U. S. Robots has frequently been faced. We have a truck parked outside the courtroom, constructed according to the laws governing the transportation of robots. Robot EZ-27 is in a packing case inside with two men guarding it. The doors to the truck are properly secured and all other necessary precautions have been taken.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You seem certain,\rdblquote  said Justice Shane, in renewed ill-temper, \ldblquote that judgment on this point will be in your favor.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Not at all, Your Honor. If it is not, we simply turn the truck about. I have made no presumptions concerning your decision.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The judge nodded. \ldblquote The request on the part of the Defense is granted.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The crate was carried in on a large dolly and the two men who handled it opened it. The courtroom was immersed in a dead silence. \par
\par
\tab Susan Calvin waited as the thick slabs of celluform went down, then held out one hand. \ldblquote Come, Easy.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The robot looked in her direction and held out its large metal arm. It towered over her by two feet but followed meekly, like a child in the clasp of its mother. Someone giggled nervously and choked it off at a hard glare from Dr. Calvin. \par
\tab Easy seated itself carefully in a large chair brought by the bailiff, which creaked but held. \par
\tab Defense said, \ldblquote When it becomes necessary, Your Honor, we will prove that this is actually Robot EZ-27, the specific robot in the employ of Northeastern University during the period of time with which we are concerned.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Good,\rdblquote  His Honor said. \ldblquote That will be necessary. I, for one, have no idea how you can tell one robot from another.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And now,\rdblquote  said Defense, \ldblquote I would like to call my first witness to the stand. Professor Simon Ninheimer, please.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The clerk hesitated, looked at the judge. Justice Shane asked, with visible surprise, \ldblquote You are calling the \i plaintiff \i0 as your witness?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, Your Honor.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I hope that you\rquote re aware that as long as he\rquote s your witness, you will be allowed none of the latitude you might exercise if you were cross-examining an opposing witness.\rdblquote\par
\tab Defense said smoothly, \ldblquote My only purpose in all this is to arrive at the truth. It will not be necessary to do more than ask a few polite questions.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  said the judge dubiously, \ldblquote you\rquote re the one handling the case. Call the witness.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Ninheimer took the stand and was informed that he was still under oath. He looked more nervous than he had the day before, almost apprehensive. \par
\tab But Defense looked at him benignly. \par
\tab\ldblquote Now, Professor Ninheimer, you are suing my clients in the amount of $750,000.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That is the--uh--sum. Yes.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That is a great deal of money.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I have suffered a great deal of harm.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Surely not that much. The material in question involves only a few passages in a book. Perhaps these were unfortunate passages, but after all, books sometimes appear with curious mistakes in them.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Ninheimer\rquote s nostrils flared. \ldblquote Sir, this book was to have been the climax of my professional career! Instead, it makes me look like an incompetent scholar, a perverter of the views held by my honored friends and associates, and a believer of ridiculous and--uh--outmoded viewpoints. My reputation is irretrievably shattered! I can never hold up my head in any--uh--assemblage of scholars, regardless of the outcome of this trial. I certainly cannot continue in my career, which has been the whole of my life. The very purpose of my life has been--uh--aborted and destroyed.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Defense made no attempt to interrupt the speech, but stared abstractedly at his fingernails as it went on. \par
\tab He said very soothingly, \ldblquote But surely, Professor Ninheimer, at your present age, you could not hope to earn more than--let us be generous--$l5O,OOO during the remainder of your life. Yet you are asking the court to award you five times as much.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab Ninheimer said, with an even greater burst of emotion, \ldblquote It is not in my lifetime alone that I am ruined. I do not know for how many generations I shall be pointed at by sociologists as a--uh--a fool or maniac. My real achievements will be buried and ignored. I am ruined not only until the day of my death, but for all time to come, because there will always be people who will not believe that a robot made those insertions--\rdblquote  \par
\tab It was at this point that Robot EZ-27 rose to his feet. Susan Calvin made no move to stop him. She sat motionless, staring straight ahead. Defense sighed softly. \par
\tab Easy\rquote s melodious voice carried clearly. It said, \ldblquote I would like to explain to everyone that I did insert certain passages in the galley proofs that seemed directly opposed to what had been there at first--\rdblquote  \par
\tab Even the Prosecuting Attorney was too startled at the spectacle of a seven-foot robot rising to address the court to be able to demand the stopping of what was obviously a most irregular procedure. \par
\tab When he could collect his wits, it was too late. For Ninheimer rose in the witness chair, his face working. \par
\tab He shouted wildly, \ldblquote Damn you, you were instructed to keep your mouth shut about--\rdblquote  \par
\tab He ground to a choking halt, and Easy was silent, too. Prosecution was on his feet now, demanding that a mistrial be declared. \par
\tab Justice Shane banged his gavel desperately. \ldblquote Silence! Silence! Certainly there is every reason here to declare a mistrial, except that in the interests of justice I would like to have Professor Ninheimer complete his statement. I distinctly heard him say to the robot that the robot had been instructed to keep its mouth shut about something. There was no mention in your testimony, Professor Ninheimer, as to any instructions to the robot to keep silent about anything!\rdblquote  \par
\tab Ninheimer stared wordlessly at the judge. Justice Shane said, \ldblquote Did you instruct Robot EZ-27 to keep silent about something? And if so, about what?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Your Honor--\rdblquote  began Ninheimer hoarsely, and couldn\rquote t continue. \par
\tab The judge\rquote s voice grew sharp. \ldblquote Did you, in fact, order the inserts in question to be made in the galleys and then order the robot to keep quiet about your part in this?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Prosecution objected vigorously, but Ninheimer shouted, \ldblquote Oh, what\rquote s the use? Yes! Yes!\rdblquote And he ran from the witness stand. He was stopped at the door by the bailiff and sank hopelessly into one of the last rows of seats, head buried in both hands. \par
\tab Justice Shane said, \ldblquote It is evident to me that Robot EZ-27 was brought here as a trick. Except for the fact that the trick served to prevent a serious miscarriage of justice, I would certainly hold attorney for the Defense in contempt. It is clear now, beyond any doubt, that the plaintiff has committed what is to me a completely inexplicable fraud since, apparently, he was knowingly ruining his career in the process--\rdblquote  \par
\tab Judgment, of course, was for the defendant. \par
\par
\tab Dr. Susan Calvin had herself announced at Dr. Ninheimer\rquote s bachelor quarters in University Hall. The young engineer who had driven the car offered to go up with her, but she looked at him scornfully. \par
\tab\ldblquote Do you think he\rquote ll assault me? Wait down here.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Ninheimer was in no mood to assault anyone. He was packing, wasting no time, anxious to be away before the adverse conclusion of the trial became general knowledge. \par
\tab He looked at Calvin with a queerly defiant air and said, \ldblquote Are you coming to warn me of a countersuit? If so, it will get you nothing. I have no money, no job, no future. I can\rquote t even meet the costs of the trial.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote If you\rquote re looking for sympathy,\rdblquote  said Calvin coldly, \ldblquote don\rquote t look for it here. This was your doing. However, there will be no countersuit, neither of you nor of the university. We will even do what we can to keep you from going to prison for perjury. We aren\rquote t vindictive.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, is that why I\rquote m not already in custody for forswearing myself? I had wondered. But then,\rdblquote  he added bitterly, \ldblquote why \i should \i0 you be vindictive? You have what you want now.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Some of what we want, yes,\rdblquote  said Calvin. \ldblquote The university will keep Easy in its employ at a considerably higher rental fee. Furthermore, certain underground publicity concerning the trial will make it possible to place a few more of the EZ models in other institutions without danger of a repetition of this trouble.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Then why have you come to see me?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Because I don\rquote t have all of what I want yet. I want to know why you hate robots as you do. Even if you had won the case, your reputation would have been ruined. The money you might have obtained could not have compensated for that. Would the satisfaction of your hatred for robots have done so?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Are you interested in \i human \i0 minds, Dr. Calvin?\rdblquote  asked Ninheimer, with acid mockery. \par
\tab\ldblquote Insofar as their reactions concern the welfare of robots, yes. For that reason, I have learned a little of human psychology.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Enough of it to be able to trick met\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That wasn\rquote t hard,\rdblquote  said Calvin, without pomposity. \ldblquote The difficult thing was doing it in such a way as not to damage Easy.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It is like you to be more concerned for a machine than for a man.\rdblquote  He looked at her with savage contempt. \par
\tab It left her unmoved. \ldblquote It merely seems so, Professor Ninheimer. It is only by being concerned for robots that one can truly be concerned for twenty-first-century man. You would understand this if you were a roboticist.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I have read enough robotics to know I don\rquote t \i want \i0 to be a roboticist!\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Pardon me, you have read \i a book \i0 on robotics. It has taught you nothing. You learned enough to know that you could order a robot to do many things, even to falsify a book, if you went about it properly. You learned enough to know that you could not order him to forget something entirely without risking detection, but you thought you could order him into simple silence more safely. You were wrong.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You guessed the truth from his silencer\rquote  \ldblquote It wasn\rquote t guessing. You were an amateur and didn\rquote t know enough to cover your tracks completely. My only problem was to prove the matter to the judge and you were kind enough to help us there, in your ignorance of the robotics you claim to despise.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab\ldblquote Is there any purpose in this discussion?\rdblquote  asked Ninheimer wearily. \par
\tab\ldblquote For me, yes,\rdblquote  said Susan Calvin, \ldblquote because I want you to understand how completely you have misjudged robots. You silenced Easy by telling him that if he told anyone about your own distortion of the book, you would lose your job. That set up a certain potential within Easy toward silence, one that was strong enough to resist our efforts to break it down. We would have damaged the brain if we had persisted. \par
\tab\ldblquote On the witness stand, however, you yourself put up a higher counterpotential. You said that because people would think that you, not a robot, had written the disputed passages in the book, you would lose far more than just your job. You would lose your reputation, your standing, your respect, your reason for living. You would lose the memory of you after death. A new and higher potential was set up by you--and Easy talked.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, God,\rdblquote  said Ninheimer, turning his head away. Calvin was inexorable. She said, \ldblquote Do you understand \i why \i0 he talked? It was not to accuse you, but to \i defend \i0 you! It can be mathematically shown that he was about to assume full blame for your crime, to deny that you had anything to do with it. The First Law required that. He was going to lie--to damage himself--to bring monetary harm to a corporation. All that meant less to him than did the saving of you. If you really understood robots and robotics, you would have let him talk. But you did not understand, as I was sure you wouldn\rquote t, as I guaranteed to the defense attorney that you wouldn\rquote t. You were certain, in your hatred of robots, that Easy would act as a human being would act and defend itself at your expense. So you flared out at him in panic--and destroyed yourself.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Ninheimer said with feeling, \ldblquote I hope some day your robots turn on you and kill you!\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Don\rquote t be foolish,\rdblquote  said Calvin. \ldblquote Now I want you to explain why you\rquote ve done all this.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Ninheimer grinned a distorted, humorless grin. \ldblquote I am to dissect my mind, am I, for your intellectual curiosity, in return for immunity from a charge of perjury?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Put it that way if you like,\rdblquote  said Calvin emotionlessly. \ldblquote But explain.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote So that you can counter future anti-robot attempts more efficiently? With greater understanding?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I accept that.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You know,\rdblquote  said Ninheimer, \ldblquote I\rquote ll tell you--just to watch it do you no good at all. You can\rquote t understand human motivation. You can only understand your damned machines because you\rquote re a machine yourself, with skin on.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab He was breathing hard and there was no hesitation in his speech, no searching for precision. It was as though he had no further use for precision. \par
\tab He said, \ldblquote For two hundred and fifty years, the machine has been replacing Man and destroying the handcraftsman. Pottery is spewed out of molds and presses. Works of art have been replaced by identical gimcracks stamped out on a die. Call it progress, if you wish! The artist is restricted to abstractions, confined to the world of ideas. He must design something in mind--and then the machine does the rest. \par
\tab\ldblquote Do you suppose the potter is content with mental creation? Do you suppose the idea is enough? That there is nothing in the feel of the clay itself, in watching the thing grow as hand and mind work \i together? \i0 Do you suppose the actual growth doesn\rquote t act as a feedback to modify and improve the idea?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You are not a potter,\rdblquote  said Dr. Calvin. \ldblquote I am a creative artist! I design and build articles and books. There is more to it than the mere thinking of words and of putting them in the right order. If that were all, there would be no pleasure in it, no return. \par
\tab\ldblquote A book should take shape in the hands of the writer. One must actually see the chapters grow and develop. One must work and rework and watch the changes take place beyond the original concept even. There is taking the galleys in hand and seeing how the sentences look in print and molding them again. There are a hundred contacts between a man and his work at every stage of the game and the contact itself is pleasurable and repays a man for the work he puts into his creation more than anything else could. \i Your robot would take all that away.\i0\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote So does a typewriter. So does a printing press. Do you propose to return to the hand illumination of manuscripts?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Typewriters and printing presses take away some, but your robot would deprive us of all. Your robot takes over the galleys. Soon it, or other robots, would take over the original writing, the searching of the sources, the checking and cross-checking of passages, perhaps even the deduction of conclusions. What would that leave the scholar? One thing only--the barren decisions concerning what orders to give the robot next! I want to save the future generations of the world of scholarship from such a final hell. That meant more to me than even my own reputation and so I set out to destroy U. S. Robots by whatever means.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You were bound to fail,\rdblquote  said Susan Calvin. \ldblquote I was bound to try,\rdblquote  said Simon Ninheimer. Calvin turned and left. She did her best to feel no pang of sympathy for the broken man. \par
\tab She did not entirely succeed. \par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Little Lost Robot\par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
Measures on Hyper Base had been taken in a sort of rattling fury -- the muscular equivalent of a hysterical shriek.\par
\tab To itemize them in order of both chronology and desperation, they were:\par
\par
\pard\fi-720\li1080\tx1080 1.\tab All work on the Hyperatomic Drive through all the space volume occupied by the Stations of the Twenty-Seventh Asteroidal Grouping came to a halt.\par
\pard\f3\par
\pard\fi-720\li1080\tx1080\f0 2.\tab That entire volume of space was nipped out of the System, practically speaking. No one entered without permission. No one left under any conditions.\par
\pard\f3\par
\pard\fi-720\li1080\tx1080\f0 3.\tab By special government patrol ship, Drs. Susan Calvin and Peter Bogert, respectively Head Psychologist and Mathematical Director of United States Robot & Mechanical Men Corporation, were brought to Hyper Base.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 Susan Calvin had never left the surface of Earth before, and had no perceptible desire to leave it this time. In an age of Atomic Power and a clearly coming Hyperatomic Drive, she remained quietly provincial. So she was dissatisfied with her trip and unconvinced of the emergency, and every line of her plain, middle-aged face showed it clearly enough during her first dinner at Hyper Base.\par
\tab Nor did Dr. Bogert\rquote s sleek paleness abandon a certain hangdog attitude. Nor did Major-general Kallner, who headed the project, even once forget to maintain a hunted expression. In short, it was a grisly episode, that meal, and the little session of three that followed began in a gray, unhappy manner.\par
\tab Kallner, with his baldness glistening, and his dress uniform oddly unsuited to the general mood, began with uneasy directness.\par
\tab\ldblquote This is a queer story to tell, sir, and madam. I want to thank you for coming on short notice and without a reason being given. We\rquote ll try to correct that now. We\rquote ve lost a robot. Work has stopped and \i must\i0  stop until such time as we locate it. So far we have failed, and we feel we need expert help.\rdblquote\par
\tab Perhaps the general felt his predicament anticlimactic. He continued with a note of desperation, \ldblquote I needn\rquote t tell you the importance of our work here. More than eighty percent of last year\rquote s appropriations for scientific research have gone to us-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why, we know that,\rdblquote  said Bogert, agreeably. \ldblquote U. S. Robots is receiving a generous rental fee for use of our robots.\rdblquote\par
\tab Susan Calvin injected a blunt, vinegary note, \ldblquote What makes a single robot so important to the project, and why hasn\rquote t it been located?\rdblquote\par
\tab The general turned his red face toward her and wet his lips quickly, \ldblquote Why, in a manner of speaking we \i have\i0  located it.\rdblquote  Then, with near anguish, \ldblquote Here, suppose I explain. As soon as the robot failed to report a state of emergency was declared, and all movement off Hyper Base stopped. A cargo vessel had landed the previous day and had delivered us two robots for our laboratories. It had sixty-two robots of the... uh... game type for shipment elsewhere. We are certain as to that figure. There is no question about it whatever.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes? And the connection?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote When our missing robot failed of location anywhere -- I assure you we would have found a missing blade of grass if it had been there to find -- we brainstormed ourselves into counting the robots left of the cargo ship. They have sixty-three now.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote So that the sixty-third, I take it, is the missing prodigal?\rdblquote  Dr. Calvin\rquote s eyes darkened.\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, but we have no way of telling which is the sixty-third.\rdblquote\par
\tab There was a dead silence while the electric clock chimed eleven times, and then the robopsychologist said, \ldblquote Very peculiar,\rdblquote  and the corners of her lips moved downward.\par
\tab\ldblquote Peter,\rdblquote  she turned to her colleague with a trace of savagery, \ldblquote what\rquote s wrong here? What kind of robots are they, using at Hyper Base?\rdblquote\par
\tab Dr. Bogert hesitated and smiled feebly, \ldblquote It\rquote s been rather a matter of delicacy till now, Susan.\rdblquote\par
\tab She spoke rapidly, \ldblquote Yes, \i till\i0  now. If there are sixty-three same-type robots, one of which is wanted and the identity of which cannot be determined, why won\rquote t any of them do? What\rquote s the idea of all this? Why have we been sent for?\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert said in resigned fashion, \ldblquote If you\rquote ll give me a chance, Susan -- Hyper Base happens to be using several robots whose brains are not impressioned with the entire First Law of Robotics.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote\i Aren\rquote t\i0  impressioned?\rdblquote  Calvin slumped back in her chair, \ldblquote I see. How many were made?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote A few. It was on government order and there was no way of violating the secrecy. No one was to know except the top men directly concerned. You weren\rquote t included, Susan. It was nothing I had anything to do with.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab The general interrupted with a measure of authority. \ldblquote I would like to explain that bit. I hadn\rquote t been aware that Dr. Calvin was unacquainted with the situation. I needn\rquote t tell you, Dr. Calvin, that there always has been strong opposition to robots on the Planet. The only defense the government has had against the Fundamentalist radicals in this matter was the fact that robots are always built with an unbreakable First Law -- which makes it impossible for them to harm human beings under any circumstance.\par
\tab\ldblquote But we \i had\i0  to have robots of a different nature. So just a few of the NS-2 model, the Nestors, that is, were prepared with a modified First Law. To keep it quiet, all NS-2\rquote s are manufactured without serial numbers; modified members are delivered here along with a group of normal robots; and, of course, all our kind are under the strictest impressionment never to tell of their modification to unauthorized personnel.\rdblquote  He wore an embarrassed smile; \ldblquote This has all worked out against us now.\rdblquote\par
\tab Calvin said grimly, \ldblquote Have you asked each one who it is, anyhow? Certainly, you are authorized?\rdblquote\par
\tab The general nodded, \ldblquote All sixty-three deny having worked here -- and one is lying.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Does the one you want show traces of wear? The others, I take it, are factory-fresh.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The one in question only arrived last month. It, and the two that have just arrived, were to be the last we needed. There\rquote s no perceptible wear.\rdblquote  He shook his head slowly and his eyes were haunted again, \ldblquote Dr. Calvin, we don\rquote t dare let that ship leave. If the existence of non-First Law robots becomes general knowledge-\rdblquote  There seemed no way of avoiding understatement in the conclusion.\par
\tab\ldblquote Destroy all sixty-three,\rdblquote  said the robopsychologist coldly and flatly, \ldblquote and make an end of it.\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert drew back a corner of his mouth. \ldblquote You mean destroy thirty thousand dollars per robot. I\rquote m afraid U. S. Robots wouldn\rquote t like that. We\rquote d better make an effort first, Susan, before we destroy anything.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote In that case,\rdblquote  she said, sharply, \ldblquote I need facts. Exactly what advantage does Hyper Base derive from these modified robots? What factor made them desirable, general?\rdblquote\par
\tab Kallner ruffled his forehead and stroked it with an upward gesture of his hand. \ldblquote We had trouble with our previous robots. Our men work with hard radiations a good deal, you see. It\rquote s dangerous, of course, but reasonable precautions are taken. There have been only two accidents since we began and neither was fatal. However, it was impossible to explain that to an ordinary robot. The First Law states -- I\rquote ll quote it -- \lquote\i No robot may harm a human being, or through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm\i0 .\rquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s primary, Dr. Calvin. When it was necessary for one of our men to expose himself for a short period to a moderate gamma field, one that would have no physiological effects, the nearest robot would dash in to drag him out. If the field were exceedingly weak, it would succeed, and work could not continue till all robots were cleared out. If the field were a trifle stronger, the robot would never reach the technician concerned, since its positronic brain would collapse under gamma radiations -- and then we would be out one expensive and hard-to-replace robot.\par
\tab\ldblquote We tried arguing with them. Their point was that a human being in a gamma field was endangering his life and that it didn\rquote t matter that he could remain there half an hour safely. Supposing, they would say, he forgot and remained an hour. They couldn\rquote t take chances. We pointed out that they were risking their lives on a wild off-chance. But self-preservation is only the Third Law of Robotics -- and the First Law of human safety came first. We gave them orders; we ordered them strictly and harshly to remain out of gamma fields at whatever cost. But obedience is only the Second Law of Robotics -- and the First Law of human safety came first. Dr. Calvin, we either had to do without robots, or do something about the First Law -- and we made our choice.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I can\rquote t believe,\rdblquote  said Dr. Calvin, \ldblquote that it was found possible to remove the First Law.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It wasn\rquote t removed, it was modified,\rdblquote  explained Kallner. \ldblquote Positronic brains were constructed that contained the positive aspect only of the Law, which in them reads: \lquote\i No robot may harm a human being\i0 .\rquote  That is all. They have no compulsion to prevent one coming to harm through an extraneous agency such as gamma rays. I state the matter correctly, Dr. Bogert?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Quite,\rdblquote  assented the mathematician.\par
\tab\ldblquote And that is the only difference of your robots from the ordinary NS2 model? The \i only\i0  difference? Peter?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The \i only\i0  difference, Susan.\rdblquote\par
\tab She rose and spoke with finality, \ldblquote I intend sleeping now, and in about eight hours, I want to speak to whomever saw the robot last. And from now on, General Kallner, if I\rquote m to take any responsibility at all for events, I want full and unquestioned control of this investigation.\rdblquote\par
\tab Susan Calvin, except for two hours of resentful lassitude, experienced nothing approaching sleep. She signaled at Bogert\rquote s door at the local time of 0700 and found him also awake. He had apparently taken the trouble of transporting a dressing gown to Hyper Base with him, for he was sitting in it. He put his nail scissors down when Calvin entered.\par
\tab He said softly, \ldblquote I\rquote ve been expecting you more or less. I suppose you feel sick about all this.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I do.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well -- I\rquote m sorry. There was no way of preventing it. When the call came out from Hyper Base for us, I knew that something must have gone wrong with the modified Nestors. But what was there to do? I couldn\rquote t break the matter to you on the trip here, as I would have liked to, because I had to be sure. The matter of the modification is top secret.\rdblquote\par
\tab The psychologist muttered, \ldblquote I should have been told. U. S. Robots had no right to modify positronic brains this way without the approval of a psychologist.\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert lifted his eyebrows and sighed. \ldblquote Be reasonable, Susan. You couldn\rquote t have influenced them. In this matter, the government was bound to have its way. They want the Hyperatomic Drive and the etheric physicists want robots that won\rquote t interfere with them. They were going to get them even if it did mean twisting the First Law. We had to admit it was possible from a construction standpoint and they swore a mighty oath that they wanted only twelve, that they would be used only at Hyper Base, that they would be destroyed once the Drive was perfected, and that full precautions would be taken. And they insisted on secrecy -- and that\rquote s the situation.\rdblquote\par
\tab Dr. Calvin spoke through her teeth, \ldblquote I would have resigned.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It wouldn\rquote t have helped. The government was offering the company a fortune, and threatening it with antirobot legislation in case of a refusal. We were stuck then, and we\rquote re badly stuck now. If this leaks out, it might hurt Kallner and the government, but it would hurt U. S. Robots a devil of a lot more.\rdblquote\par
\tab The psychologist stared at him. \ldblquote Peter, don\rquote t you realize what all this is about? Can\rquote t you understand what the removal of the First Law means? It isn\rquote t just a matter of secrecy.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I know what removal would mean. I\rquote m not a child. It would mean complete instability, with no nonimaginary solutions to the positronic Field Equations.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, mathematically. But can you translate that into crude psychological thought. All normal life, Peter, consciously or otherwise, resents domination. If the domination is by an inferior, or by a supposed inferior, the resentment becomes stronger. Physically, and, to an extent, mentally, a robot -- any robot -- is superior to human beings. What makes him slavish, then? \i Only the First Law!\i0  Why, without it, the first order you tried to give a robot would result in your death. Unstable? What do you think?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Susan,\rdblquote  said Bogert, with an air of sympathetic amusement. \ldblquote I\rquote ll admit that this Frankenstein Complex you\rquote re exhibiting has a certain justification -- hence the First Law in the first place. But the Law, I repeat and repeat, has not been removed -- merely modified.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And what about the stability of the brain?\rdblquote\par
\tab The mathematician thrust out his lips, \ldblquote Decreased, naturally. But it\rquote s within the border of safety. The first Nestors were delivered to Hyper Base nine months ago, and nothing whatever has gone wrong till now, and even this involves merely fear of discovery and not danger to humans.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Very well, then. We\rquote ll see what comes of the morning conference.\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert saw her politely to the door and grimaced eloquently when she left. He saw no reason to change his perennial opinion of her as a sour and fidgety frustration.\par
\tab Susan Calvin\rquote s train of thought did not include Bogert in the least. She had dismissed him years ago as a smooth and pretentious sleekness.\par
\par
\tab Gerald Black had taken his degree in etheric physics the year before and, in common with his entire generation of physicists, found himself engaged in the problem of the Drive. He now made a proper addition to the general atmosphere of these meetings on Hyper Base. In his stained white smock, he was half rebellious and wholly uncertain. His stocky strength seemed striving for release and his fingers, as they twisted each other with nervous yanks, might have forced an iron bar out of true.\par
\tab Major-general Kallner sat beside him; the two from U. S. Robots faced him.\par
\tab Black said, \ldblquote I\rquote m told that I was the last to see Nestor 10 before he vanished. I take it you want to ask me about that.\rdblquote\par
\tab Dr. Calvin regarded him with interest, \ldblquote You sound as if you were not sure, young man. Don\rquote t you \i know\i0  whether you were the last to see him?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote He worked with me, ma\rquote am, on the field generators, and he was with me the morning of his disappearance. I don\rquote t know if anyone saw him after about noon. No one admits having done so.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Do you think anyone\rquote s lying about it?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t say that. But I don\rquote t say that I want the blame of it, either.\rdblquote  His dark eyes smoldered.\par
\tab\ldblquote There\rquote s no question of blame. The robot acted as it did because of what it is. We\rquote re just trying to locate it, Mr. Black, and let\rquote s put everything else aside. Now if you\rquote ve worked with the robot, you probably know it better than anyone else. Was there anything unusual about it that you noticed? Had you ever worked with robots before?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ve worked with other robots we have here -- the simple ones. Nothing different about the Nestors except that they\rquote re a good deal cleverer -- and more annoying.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Annoying? In what way?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well -- perhaps it\rquote s not their fault. The work here is rough and most of us get a little jagged. Fooling around with hyper-space isn\rquote t fun.\rdblquote  He smiled feebly, finding pleasure in confession. \ldblquote We run the risk continually of blowing a hole in normal space-time fabric and dropping right out of the universe, asteroid and all. Sounds screwy, doesn\rquote t it? Naturally, you\rquote re on edge sometimes. But these Nestors aren\rquote t. They\rquote re curious, they\rquote re calm, they don\rquote t worry. It\rquote s enough to drive you nuts at times. When you want something done in a tearing hurry, they seem to take their time. Sometimes I\rquote d rather do without.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You say they take their time? Have they ever refused an order?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, no,\rdblquote  hastily. \ldblquote They do it all right. They tell you when they think you\rquote re wrong, though. They don\rquote t know anything about the subject but what we taught them, but that doesn\rquote t stop them. Maybe I imagine it, but the other fellows have the same trouble with their Nestors.\rdblquote\par
\tab General Kallner cleared his throat ominously, \ldblquote Why have no complaints reached me on the matter, Black?\rdblquote\par
\tab The young physicist reddened, \ldblquote We didn\rquote t \i really\i0  want to do without the robots, sir, and besides we weren\rquote t certain exactly how such... uh... minor complaints might be received.\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert interrupted softly, \ldblquote Anything in particular happen the morning you last saw it?\rdblquote\par
\tab There was a silence. With a quiet motion, Calvin repressed the comment that was about to emerge from Kallner, and waited patiently.\par
\tab Then Black spoke in blurting anger, \ldblquote I had a little trouble with it. I\rquote d broken a Kimball tube that morning and was out five days of work; my entire program was behind schedule; I hadn\rquote t received any mail from home for a couple of weeks. And \i he\i0  came around wanting me to repeat an experiment I had abandoned a month ago. He was always annoying me on that subject and I was tired of it. I told him to go away -- and that\rquote s all I saw of him.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You told him to go away?\rdblquote  asked Dr. Calvin with sharp interest. \ldblquote In just those words? Did you say \lquote Go away\rquote ? Try to remember the exact words.\rdblquote\par
\tab There was apparently an internal struggle in progress. Black cradled his forehead in a broad palm for a moment, then tore it away and said defiantly, \ldblquote I said, \lquote Go lose yourself.\rquote  \ldblquote\par
\tab Bogert laughed for a short moment. \ldblquote And he did, eh?\rdblquote\par
\tab But Calvin wasn\rquote t finished. She spoke cajolingly, \ldblquote Now we\rquote re getting somewhere, Mr. Black. But exact details are important. In understanding the robot\rquote s actions, a word, a gesture, an emphasis may be everything. You couldn\rquote t have said just those three words, for instance, could you? By your own description you must have been in a hasty mood. Perhaps you strengthened your speech a little.\rdblquote\par
\tab The young man reddened, \ldblquote Well... I may have called it a... a few things.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Exactly what things?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh -- I wouldn\rquote t remember exactly. Besides I couldn\rquote t repeat it. You know how you get when you\rquote re excited.\rdblquote  His embarrassed laugh was almost a giggle, \ldblquote I sort of have a tendency to strong language.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s quite all right,\rdblquote  she replied, with prim severity. \ldblquote At the moment, I\rquote m a psychologist. I would like to have you repeat exactly what you said as nearly as you remember, and, even more important, the exact tone of voice you used.\rdblquote\par
\tab Black looked at his commanding officer for support, found none. His eyes grew round and appalled, \ldblquote But I can\rquote t.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You must.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Suppose,\rdblquote  said Bogert, with ill-hidden amusement, \ldblquote you address me. You may find it easier.\rdblquote\par
\tab The young man\rquote s scarlet face turned to Bogert. He swallowed. \ldblquote I said\rdblquote  His voice faded out. He tried again, \ldblquote I said-\rdblquote\par
\tab And he drew a deep breath and spewed it out hastily in one long succession of syllables. Then, in the charged air that lingered, he concluded almost in tears, \ldblquote ... more or less. I don\rquote t remember the exact order of what I called him, and maybe I left out something or put in something, but that was about it.\rdblquote\par
\tab Only the slightest flush betrayed any feeling on the part of the robopsychologist. She said, \ldblquote I am aware of the meaning of most of the terms used. The others, I suppose, are equally derogatory.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m afraid so,\rdblquote  agreed the tormented Black.\par
\tab\ldblquote And in among it, you told him to lose himself.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I meant it only figuratively.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I realize that. No disciplinary action is intended, I am sure.\rdblquote  And at her glance, the general, who, five seconds earlier, had seemed not sure at all, nodded angrily.\par
\tab\ldblquote You may leave, Mr. Black. Thank you for your cooperation.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab It took five hours for Susan Calvin to interview the sixty-three robots. It was five hours of multi-repetition; of replacement after replacement of identical robot; of Questions A, B, C, D; and Answers A, B, C, D; of a carefully bland expression, a carefully neutral tone, a carefully friendly atmosphere; and a hidden wire recorder.\par
\tab The psychologist felt drained of vitality when she was finished.\par
\tab Bogert was waiting for her and looked expectant as she dropped the recording spool with a clang upon the plastic of the desk.\par
\tab She shook her head, \ldblquote All sixty-three seemed the same to me. I couldn\rquote t tell-\rdblquote\par
\tab He said, \ldblquote You couldn\rquote t expect to tell by ear, Susan. Suppose we analyze the recordings.\rdblquote\par
\tab Ordinarily, the mathematical interpretation of verbal reactions of robots is one of the more intricate branches of robotic analysis. It requires a staff of trained technicians and the help of complicated computing machines. Bogert knew that. Bogert stated as much, in an extreme of unshown annoyance after having listened to each set of replies, made lists of word deviations, and graphs of the intervals of responses.\par
\tab\ldblquote There are no anomalies present, Susan. The variations in wording and the time reactions are within the limits of ordinary frequency groupings. We need finer methods. They must have computers here. No.\rdblquote  He frowned and nibbled delicately at a thumbnail. \ldblquote We can\rquote t use computers. Too much danger of leakage. Or maybe if we-\rdblquote\par
\tab Dr. Calvin stopped him with an impatient gesture, \ldblquote Please, Peter. This isn\rquote t one of your petty laboratory problems. If we can\rquote t determine the modified Nestor by some gross difference that we can see with the naked eye, one that there is no mistake about, we\rquote re out of luck. The danger of being wrong, and of letting him escape is otherwise too great. It\rquote s not enough to point out a minute irregularity in a graph. I tell you, if that\rquote s all I\rquote ve got to go on, I\rquote d destroy them all just to be certain. Have you spoken to the other modified Nestors?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, I have,\rdblquote  snapped back Bogert, \ldblquote and there\rquote s nothing wrong with them. They\rquote re above normal in friendliness if anything. They answered my questions, displayed pride in their knowledge -- except the two new ones that haven\rquote t had time to learn their etheric physics. They laughed rather good-naturedly at my ignorance in some of the specializations here.\rdblquote  He shrugged, \ldblquote I suppose that forms some of the basis for resentment toward them on the part of the technicians here. The robots are perhaps too willing to impress you with their greater knowledge.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Can you try a few Planar Reactions to see if there has been any change, any deterioration, in their mental set-up since manufacture?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I haven\rquote t yet, but I will.\rdblquote  He shook a slim finger at her, \ldblquote You\rquote re losing your nerve, Susan. I don\rquote t see what it is you\rquote re dramatizing. They\rquote re essentially harmless.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote They are?\rdblquote  Calvin took fire. \ldblquote They are? Do you realize one of them is lying? One of the sixty-three robots I have just interviewed has deliberately lied to me after the strictest injunction to tell the truth. The abnormality indicated is horribly deep-seated, and horribly frightening.\rdblquote\par
\tab Peter Bogert felt his teeth harden against each other. He said, \ldblquote Not at all. Look! Nestor 10 was given orders to lose himself. Those orders were expressed in maximum urgency by the person most authorized to command him. You can\rquote t counteract that order either by superior urgency or superior right of command. Naturally, the robot will attempt to defend the carrying out of his orders. In fact, objectively, I admire his ingenuity. How better can a robot lose himself than to hide himself among a group of similar robots?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, you would admire it. I\rquote ve detected amusement in you, Peter -- amusement and an appalling lack of understanding. Are you a roboticist, Peter? Those robots attach importance to what they consider superiority. You\rquote ve just said as much yourself. Subconsciously they feel humans to be inferior and the First Law which protects us from them is imperfect. They are unstable. And here we have a young man ordering a robot to leave him, to lose himself, with every verbal appearance of revulsion, disdain, and disgust. Granted, that robot must follow orders, but subconsciously, there is resentment. It will become more important than ever for it to prove that it is superior despite the horrible names it was called. It may become so important that what\rquote s left of the First Law won\rquote t be enough.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote How on Earth, or anywhere in the Solar System, Susan, is a robot going to know the meaning of the assorted strong language used upon him? Obscenity is not one of the things impressioned upon his brain.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Original impressionment is not everything,\rdblquote  Calvin snarled at him. \ldblquote Robots have learning capacity, you... you fool-\rdblquote  And Bogert knew that she had really lost her temper. She continued hastily, \ldblquote Don\rquote t you suppose he could tell from the tone used that the words weren\rquote t complimentary? Don\rquote t yon suppose he\rquote s heard the words used before and noted upon what occasions?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, then,\rdblquote  shouted Bogert, \ldblquote will you kindly tell me one way in which a modified robot can harm a human being, no matter how offended it is, no matter how sick with desire to prove superiority?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote If I tell you one way, will you keep quiet?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
\tab They were leaning across the table at each other, angry eyes nailed together.\par
\tab The psychologist said, \ldblquote If a modified robot were to drop a heavy weight upon a human being, he would not be breaking the First Law, if he did so with the knowledge that his strength and reaction speed would be sufficient to snatch the weight away before it struck the man. However once the weight left his fingers, he would be no longer the active medium. Only the blind force of gravity would be that. The robot could then change his mind and merely by inaction, allow the weight to strike. The modified First Law allows that.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s an awful stretch of imagination.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s what my profession requires sometimes. Peter, let\rquote s not quarrel, let\rquote s work. You know the exact nature of the stimulus that caused the robot to lose himself. You have the records of his original mental make-up. I want you to tell me how possible it is for our robot to do the sort of thing I just talked about. Not the specific instance, mind you, but that whole class of response. And I want it done quickly.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And meanwhile-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And meanwhile, we\rquote ll have to try performance tests directly on the response to First Law.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Gerald Black, at his own request, was supervising the mushrooming wooden partitions that were springing up in a bellying circle on the vaulted third floor of Radiation Building 2. The laborers worked, in the main, silently, but more than one was openly a-wonder at the sixty-three photocells that required installation.\par
\tab One of them sat down near Black, removed his hat, and wiped his forehead thoughtfully with a freckled forearm.\par
\tab Black nodded at him, \ldblquote How\rquote s it doing, Walensky?\rdblquote\par
\tab Walensky shrugged and fired a cigar, \ldblquote Smooth as butter. What\rquote s going on anyway, Doc? First, there\rquote s no work for three days and then we have this mess of jiggers.\rdblquote  He leaned backward on his elbows and puffed smoke.\par
\tab Black twitched his eyebrows, \ldblquote A couple of robot men came over from Earth. Remember the trouble we had with robots running into the gamma fields before we pounded it into their skulls that they weren\rquote t to do it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yeah. Didn\rquote t we get new robots?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We got some replacements, but mostly it was a job of indoctrination. Anyway, the people who make them want to figure out robots that aren\rquote t hit so bad by gamma rays.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Sure seems funny, though, to stop all the work on the Drive for this robot deal. I thought nothing was allowed to stop the Drive.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, it\rquote s the fellows upstairs that have the say on that. Me -- I just do as I\rquote m told. Probably all a matter of pull-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yeah,\rdblquote  the electrician jerked a smile, and winked a wise eye. \ldblquote Somebody knew somebody in Washington. But as long as my pay comes through on the dot, I should worry. The Drive\rquote s none of my affair. What are they going to do here?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote re asking me? They brought a mess of robots with them, -- over sixty, and they\rquote re going to measure reactions. That\rquote s all my knowledge.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote How long will it take?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I wish I knew.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  Walensky said, with heavy sarcasm, \ldblquote as long as they dish me my money, they can play games all they want.\rdblquote\par
\tab Black felt quietly satisfied. Let the story spread. It was harmless, and near enough to the truth to take the fangs out of curiosity.\par
\par
\tab A man sat in the chair, motionless, silent. A weight dropped, crashed downward, then pounded aside at the last moment under the synchronized thump of a sudden force beam. In sixty-three wooden cells, watching NS-2 robots dashed forward in that split second before the weight veered, and sixty-three photocells five feet ahead of their original positions jiggled the marking pen and presented a little jag on the paper. The weight rose and dropped, rose and dropped, rose-\par
\tab Ten times!\par
\tab Ten times the robots sprang forward and stopped, as the man remained safely seated.\par
\par
\tab Major-general Kallner had not worn his uniform in its entirety since the first dinner with the U. S. Robot representatives. He wore nothing over his blue-gray shirt now, the collar was open, and the black tie was pulled loose.\par
\tab He looked hopefully at Bogert, who was still blandly neat and whose inner tension was perhaps betrayed only by the trace of glister at his temples.\par
\tab The general said, \ldblquote How does it look? What is it you\rquote re trying to see?\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert replied, \ldblquote A difference which may turn out to be a little too subtle for our purposes, I\rquote m afraid. For sixty-two of those robots the necessity of jumping toward the apparently threatened human was what we call, in robotics, a forced reaction. You see, even when the robots knew that the human in question would not come to harm -- and after the third or fourth time they must have known it -- they could not prevent reacting as they did. First Law requires it\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But the sixty-third robot, the modified Nestor, had no such compulsion. He was under free action. If he had wished, he could have remained in his seat. Unfortunately,\rdblquote  said his voice was mildly regretful, \ldblquote he didn\rquote t so wish.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why do you suppose?\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert shrugged, \ldblquote I suppose Dr. Calvin will tell us when she gets here. Probably with a horribly pessimistic interpretation, too. She is sometimes a bit annoying.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote She\rquote s qualified, isn\rquote t she?\rdblquote  demanded the general with a sudden frown of uneasiness.\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote  Bogert seemed amused. \ldblquote She\rquote s qualified all right. She understands robots like a sister -- comes from hating human beings so much, I think. It\rquote s just that, psychologist or not, she\rquote s an extreme neurotic. Has paranoid tendencies. Don\rquote t take her too seriously.\rdblquote\par
\tab He spread the long row of broken-line graphs out in front of him. \ldblquote You see, general, in the case of each robot the time interval from moment of drop to the completion of a five-foot movement tends to decrease as the tests are repeated. There\rquote s a definite mathematical relationship that governs such things and failure to conform would indicate marked abnormality in the positronic brain. Unfortunately, all here appear normal.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But if our Nestor 10 was not responding with a forced action, why isn\rquote t his curve different? I don\rquote t understand that.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s simple enough. Robotic responses are not perfectly analogous to human responses, more\rquote s the pity. In human beings, voluntary action is much slower than reflex action. But that\rquote s not the case with robots; with them it is merely a question of freedom of choice, otherwise the speeds of free and forced action are much the same. What I \i had\i0  been expecting, though, was that Nestor 10 would be caught by surprise the first time and allow too great an interval to elapse before responding.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And he didn\rquote t?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m afraid not.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then we haven\rquote t gotten anywhere.\rdblquote  The general sat back with an expression of pain. \ldblquote It\rquote s five days since you\rquote ve come.\rdblquote\par
\tab At this point, Susan Calvin entered and slammed the door behind her. \ldblquote Put your graphs away, Peter,\rdblquote  she cried, \ldblquote you know they don\rquote t show anything.\rdblquote\par
\tab She mumbled something impatiently as Kallner half-rose to greet her, and went on, \ldblquote We\rquote ll have to try something else quickly. I don\rquote t like what\rquote s happening.\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert exchanged a resigned glance with the general. \ldblquote Is anything wrong?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You mean specifically? No. But I don\rquote t like to have Nestor 10 continue to elude us. It\rquote s bad. It \i must\i0  be gratifying his swollen sense of superiority. I\rquote m afraid that his motivation is no longer simply one of following orders. I think it\rquote s becoming more a matter of sheer neurotic necessity to outthink humans. That\rquote s a dangerously unhealthy situation. Peter, have you done what I asked? Have you worked out the instability factors of the modified NS-2 along the lines I want?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s in progress,\rdblquote  said the mathematician, without interest.\par
\tab She stared at him angrily for a moment, then turned to Kallner. \ldblquote Nester 10 is decidedly aware of what we\rquote re doing, general. He had no reason to jump for the bait in this experiment, especially after the first time, when he must have seen that there was no real danger to our subject. The others couldn\rquote t help it; but \i he\i0  was deliberately falsifying a reaction.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What do you think we ought to do now, then, Dr. Calvin?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Make it impossible for him to fake an action the next time. We will repeat the experiment, but with an addition. High-tension cables, capable of electrocuting the Nestor models will be placed between subject and robot -- enough of them to avoid the possibility of jumping over -- and the robot will be made perfectly aware in advance that touching the cables will mean death.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Hold on,\rdblquote  spat out Bogert with sudden viciousness. \ldblquote I rule that out. We are not electrocuting two million dollars worth of robots to locate Nestor 10. There are other ways.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote re certain? You\rquote ve found none. In any case, it\rquote s not a question of electrocution. We can arrange a relay which will break the current at the instant of application of weight. If the robot should place his weight on it, he won\rquote t die. \i But he won\rquote t know that\i0 , you see.\rdblquote\par
\tab The general\rquote s eyes gleamed into hope. \ldblquote Will that work?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It should. Under those conditions, Nestor 10 would have to remain in his seat. He could be \i ordered\i0  to touch the cables and die, for the Second Law of obedience is superior to the Third Law of self-preservation. But \i he won\rquote t\i0  be ordered to; he will merely be left to his own devices, as will all the robots. In the case of the normal robots, the First Law of human safety will drive them to their death even without orders. But not our Nestor 10. Without the entire First Law, and without having received any orders on the matter, the Third Law, self-preservation, will be the highest operating, and he will have no choice but to remain in his seat. It would be a forced action.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Will it be done tonight, then?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Tonight,\rdblquote  said the psychologist, \ldblquote if the cables can be laid in time. I\rquote ll tell the robots now what they\rquote re to be up against.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab A man sat in the chair, motionless, silent. A weight dropped, crashed downward, then pounded aside at the last moment under the synchronized thump of a sudden force beam.\par
\tab Only once-\par
\tab And from her small camp chair in the observing booth in the balcony, Dr. Susan Calvin rose with a short gasp of pure horror.\par
\tab Sixty-three robots sat quietly in their chairs, staring owlishly at the endangered man before them. Not one moved.\par
\par
\tab Dr. Calvin was angry, angry almost past endurance. Angry the worse for not daring to show it to the robots that, one by one were entering the room and then leaving. She checked the list. Number twenty-eight was due in now -- Thirty-five still lay ahead of her.\par
\tab Number Twenty-eight entered, diffidently.\par
\tab She forced herself into reasonable calm. \ldblquote And who are you?\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot replied in a low, uncertain voice, \ldblquote I have received no number of my own yet, ma\rquote am. I\rquote m an NS-2 robot, and I was Number Twenty-eight in line outside. I have a slip of paper here that I\rquote m to give to you.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You haven\rquote t been in here before this today?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, ma\rquote am.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Sit down. Right there. I want to ask you some questions, Number Twenty-eight. Were you in the Radiation Room of Building Two about four hours ago?\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot had trouble answering. Then it came out hoarsely, like machinery needing oil, \ldblquote Yes, ma\rquote am.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote There was a man who almost came to harm there, wasn\rquote t there?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, ma\rquote am.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You did nothing, did you?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, ma\rquote am.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The man might have been hurt because of your inaction. Do you know that?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, ma\rquote am. I couldn\rquote t help it, ma\rquote am.\rdblquote  It is hard to picture a large expressionless metallic figure cringing, but it managed.\par
\tab\ldblquote I want you to tell me exactly why you did nothing to save him.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I want to explain, ma\rquote am. I certainly don\rquote t want to have you... have \i anyone\i0 ... think that I could do a thing that might cause harm to a master. Oh, no, that would be a horrible... an inconceivable-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Please don\rquote t get excited, boy. I\rquote m not blaming you for anything. I only want to know what you were thinking at the time.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Ma\rquote am, before it all happened you told us that one of the masters would be in danger of harm from that weight that keeps falling and that we would have to cross electric cables if we were to try to save him. Well, ma\rquote am, that wouldn\rquote t stop me. What is my destruction compared to the safety of a master? But... but it occurred to me that if I died on my way to him, I wouldn\rquote t be able to save him anyway. The weight would crush him and then I would be dead for no purpose and perhaps some day some other master might come to harm who wouldn\rquote t have, if I had only stayed alive. Do you understand me, ma\rquote am?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You mean that it was merely a choice of the man dying, or both the man and yourself dying. Is that right?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, ma\rquote am. It was impossible to save the master. He might be considered dead. In that case, it is inconceivable that I destroy myself for nothing -- without orders.\rdblquote\par
\tab The robopsychologist twiddled a pencil. She had heard the same story with insignificant verbal variations twenty-seven times before. This was the crucial question now.\par
\tab\ldblquote Boy,\rdblquote  she said, \ldblquote your thinking has its points, but it is not the sort of thing I thought you might think. Did you think of this yourself?\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot hesitated. \ldblquote No.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Who thought of it, then?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We were talking last night, and one of us got that idea and it sounded reasonable.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Which one?\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot thought deeply. \ldblquote I don\rquote t know. Just one of us.\rdblquote\par
\tab She sighed, \ldblquote That\rquote s all.\rdblquote\par
\tab Number Twenty-nine was next. Thirty-four after that.\par
\par
\tab Major-general Kallner, too, was angry. For one week all of Hyper Base had stopped dead, barring some paper work on the subsidiary asteroids of the group. For nearly one week, the two top experts in the field had aggravated the situation with useless tests. And now they -- or the woman, at any rate -- made impossible propositions.\par
\tab Fortunately for the general situation, Kallner felt it impolitic to display his anger openly.\par
\tab Susan Calvin was insisting, \ldblquote Why not, sir? It\rquote s obvious that the present situation is unfortunate. The only way we may reach results in the future -- or what future is left us in this matter -- is to separate the robots. We can\rquote t keep them together any longer.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote My dear Dr. Calvin,\rdblquote  rumbled the general, his voice sinking into the lower baritone registers. \ldblquote I don\rquote t see how I can quarter sixty-three robots all over the place-\rdblquote\par
\tab Dr. Calvin raised her arms helplessly. \ldblquote I can do nothing then. Nestor 10 will either imitate what the other robots would do, or else argue them plausibly into not doing what he himself cannot do. And in any case, this is bad business. We\rquote re in actual combat with this little lost robot of ours and he\rquote s winning out. Every victory of his aggravates his abnormality.\rdblquote\par
\tab She rose to her feet in determination. \ldblquote General Kallner, if you do not separate the robots as I ask, then I can only demand that all sixty-three be destroyed immediately.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You demand it, do you?\rdblquote  Bogert looked up suddenly, and with real anger. \ldblquote What gives you the right to demand any such thing? Those robots remain as they are. \i I\rquote m \i0 responsible to the management, not you.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And I,\rdblquote  added Major-general Kallner, \ldblquote am responsible to the World Co-ordinator -- and I must have this settled.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote In that case,\rdblquote  flashed back Calvin, \ldblquote there is nothing for me to do but resign. If necessary to force you to the necessary destruction, I\rquote ll make this whole matter public. It was not I that approved the manufacture of modified robots.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote One word from you, Dr. Calvin,\rdblquote  said the general, deliberately, \ldblquote in violation of security measures, and you would be certainly imprisoned instantly.\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert felt the matter to be getting out of hand. His voice grew syrupy, \ldblquote Well, now, we\rquote re beginning to act like children, all of us. We need only a little more time. Surely we can outwit a robot without resigning, or imprisoning people, or destroying two millions.\rdblquote\par
\tab The psychologist turned on him with quiet fury, \ldblquote I don\rquote t want any unbalanced robots in existence. We have one Nestor that\rquote s definitely unbalanced, eleven more that are potentially so, and sixty-two normal robots that are being subjected to an unbalanced environment. The only absolute safe method is complete destruction.\rdblquote\par
\tab The signal-burr brought all three to a halt, and the angry tumult of growingly unrestrained emotion froze.\par
\tab\ldblquote Come in,\rdblquote  growled Kallner.\par
\tab It was Gerald Black, looking perturbed. He had heard angry voices. He said, \ldblquote I thought I\rquote d come myself... didn\rquote t like to ask anyone else-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What is it? Don\rquote t orate-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The locks of Compartment C in the trading ship have been played with. There are fresh scratches on them.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Compartment C?\rdblquote  explained Calvin quickly. \ldblquote That\rquote s the one that holds the robots, isn\rquote t it? Who did it?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote From the inside,\rdblquote  said Black, laconically.\par
\tab\ldblquote The lock isn\rquote t out of order, is it?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No. It\rquote s all right. I\rquote ve been staying on the ship now for four days and none of them have tried to get out. But I thought you ought to know, and I didn\rquote t like to spread the news. I noticed the matter myself.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Is anyone there now?\rdblquote  demanded the general.\par
\tab\ldblquote I left Robbins and McAdams there.\rdblquote\par
\tab There was a thoughtful silence, and then Dr. Calvin said, ironically, \ldblquote Well?\rdblquote\par
\tab Kallner rubbed his nose uncertainly, \ldblquote What\rquote s it all about?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Isn\rquote t it obvious? Nester 10 is planning to leave. That order to lose himself is dominating his abnormality past anything we can do. I wouldn\rquote t be surprised if what\rquote s left of his First Law would scarcely be powerful enough to override it. He is perfectly capable of seizing the ship and leaving with it. Then we\rquote d have a mad robot on a spaceship. What would he do next? Any idea? Do you still want to leave them all together, general?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Nonsense,\rdblquote  interrupted Bogert. He had regained his smoothness. \ldblquote All that from a few scratch marks on a lock.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Have you, Dr. Bogert, completed the analysis I\rquote ve required, since you volunteer opinions?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote May I see it?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why not? Or mayn\rquote t I ask that, either?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Because there\rquote s no point in it, Susan. I told you in advance that these modified robots are less stable than the normal variety, and my analysis shows it. There\rquote s a certain very small chance of breakdown under extreme circumstances that are not likely to occur. Let it go at that. I won\rquote t give you ammunition for your absurd claim that sixty-two perfectly good robots be destroyed just because so far you lack the ability to detect Nestor 10 among them.\rdblquote\par
\tab Susan Calvin stared him down and let disgust fill her eyes. \ldblquote You won\rquote t let anything stand in the way of the permanent directorship, will you?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Please,\rdblquote  begged Kallner, half in irritation. \ldblquote Do you insist that nothing further can be done, Dr. Calvin?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I can\rquote t think of anything, sir,\rdblquote  she replied, wearily. \ldblquote If there were only other differences between Nestor 10 and the normal robots, differences that didn\rquote t involve the First Law. Even one other difference. Something in impressionment, environment, specification-\rdblquote  And she stopped suddenly.\par
\tab\ldblquote What is it?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ve thought of something... I think-\rdblquote  Her eyes grew distant and hard, \ldblquote These modified Nestors, Peter. They get the same impressioning the normal ones get, don\rquote t they?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes. Exactly the same.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And what was it you were saying, Mr. Black,\rdblquote  she turned to the young man, who through the storms that had followed his news had maintained a discreet silence. \ldblquote Once when complaining of the Nestors\rquote  attitude of superiority, you said the technicians had taught them all they knew.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, in etheric physics. They\rquote re not acquainted with the subject when they come here.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s right,\rdblquote  said Bogert, in surprise. \ldblquote I told you, Susan, when I spoke to the other Nestors here that the two new arrivals hadn\rquote t learned etheric physics yet.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And why is that?\rdblquote  Dr. Calvin was speaking in mounting excitement. \ldblquote Why aren\rquote t NS-2 models impressioned with etheric physics to start with?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I can tell you that,\rdblquote  said Kallner. \ldblquote It\rquote s all of a piece with the secrecy. We thought that if we made a special model with knowledge of etheric physics, used twelve of them and put the others to work in an unrelated field, there might be suspicion. Men working with normal Nestors might wonder why they knew etheric physics. So there was merely an impressionment with a capacity for training in the field. Only the ones that come here, naturally, receive such a training. It\rquote s that simple.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I understand. Please get out of here, the lot of you. Let me have an hour or so.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Calvin felt she could not face the ordeal for a third time. Her mind had contemplated it and rejected it with an intensity that left her nauseated. She could face that unending file of repetitious robots no more.\par
\tab So Bogert asked the question now, while she sat aside, eyes and mind half closed.\par
\tab Number Fourteen came in -- forty-nine to go.\par
\tab Bogert looked up from the guide sheet and said, \ldblquote What is your number in line?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Fourteen, sir.\rdblquote  The robot presented his numbered ticket.\par
\tab\ldblquote Sit down, boy.\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert asked, \ldblquote You haven\rquote t been here before on this day?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, sir.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, boy, we are going to have another man in danger of harm soon after we\rquote re through here. In fact, when you leave this room, you will be led to a stall where you will wait quietly, till you are needed. Do you understand?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, sir.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Now, naturally, if a man is in danger of harm, you will try to save him.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Naturally, sir.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Unfortunately, between the man and yourself, there will be a gamma ray field.\rdblquote\par
\tab Silence.\par
\tab\ldblquote Do you know what gamma rays are?\rdblquote  asked Bogert sharply.\par
\tab\ldblquote Energy radiation, sir?\rdblquote\par
\tab The next question came in a friendly, offhand manner, \ldblquote Ever work with gamma rays?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, sir.\rdblquote  The answer was definite.\par
\tab\ldblquote Mm-m. Well, boy, gamma rays will kill you instantly. They\rquote ll destroy your brain. That is a fact you must know and remember. Naturally, you don\rquote t want to destroy yourself.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Naturally.\rdblquote  Again the robot seemed shocked. Then, slowly, \ldblquote But, sir, if the gamma rays are between myself and the master that may be harmed, how can I save him? I would be destroying myself to no purpose.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, there is that,\rdblquote  Bogert seemed concerned about the matter. \ldblquote The only thing I can advise, boy, is that if you detect the gamma radiation between yourself and the man, you may as well sit where you are.\rdblquote\par
\tab The robot was openly relieved. \ldblquote Thank you, sir. There wouldn\rquote t be any use, would there?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Of course not. But if there \i weren\rquote t\i0  any dangerous radiation, that would be a different matter.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Naturally, sir. No question of that.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You may leave now. The man on the other side of the door will lead you to your stall. Please wait there.\rdblquote\par
\tab He turned to Susan Calvin when the robot left. \ldblquote How did that go, Susan?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Very well,\rdblquote  she said, dully.\par
\tab\ldblquote Do you think we could catch Nestor 10 by quick questioning on etheric physics?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Perhaps, but it\rquote s not sure enough.\rdblquote  Her hands lay loosely in her lap. \ldblquote Remember, he\rquote s fighting us. He\rquote s on his guard. The only way we can catch him is to outsmart him -- and, within his limitations, he can think much more quickly than a human being.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, just for fun -- suppose I ask the robots from now on a few questions on gamma rays. Wave length limits, for instance.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No!\rdblquote  Dr. Calvin\rquote s eyes sparked to life. \ldblquote It would be too easy for him to deny knowledge and then he\rquote d be warned against the test that\rquote s coming up -- which is our real chance. Please follow the questions I\rquote ve indicated, Peter, and don\rquote t improvise. It\rquote s just within the bounds of risk to ask them if they\rquote ve ever worked with gamma rays. And try to sound even less interested than you do when you ask it.\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert shrugged, and pressed the buzzer that would allow the entrance of Number Fifteen.\par
\tab The large Radiation Room was in readiness once more. The robots waited patiently in their wooden cells, all open to the center but closed off from each other.\par
\tab Major-general Kallner mopped his brow slowly with a large handkerchief while Dr. Calvin checked the last details with Black.\par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote re sure now,\rdblquote  she demanded, \ldblquote that none of the robots have had a chance to talk with each other after leaving the Orientation Room?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Absolutely sure,\rdblquote  insisted Black. \ldblquote There\rquote s not been a word exchanged.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And the robots are put in the proper stalls?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Here\rquote s the plan.\rdblquote\par
\tab The psychologist looked at it thoughtfully, \ldblquote Um-m-m.\rdblquote\par
\tab The general peered over her shoulder. \ldblquote What\rquote s the idea of the arrangement, Dr. Calvin?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ve asked to have those robots that appeared even slightly out of true in the previous tests concentrated on one side of the circle. I\rquote m going to be sitting in the center myself this time, and I wanted to watch those particularly.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote\i You\rquote re\i0  going to be sitting there-,\rdblquote  exclaimed Bogert.\par
\tab\ldblquote Why not?\rdblquote  she demanded coldly. \ldblquote What I expect to see may be something quite momentary. I can\rquote t risk having anyone else as main observer. Peter, you\rquote ll be in the observing booth, and I want you to keep your eye on the opposite side of the circle. General Kallner, I\rquote ve arranged for motion pictures to be taken of each robot, in case visual observation isn\rquote t enough. If these are required, the robots are to remain exactly where they are until the pictures are developed and studied. None must leave, none must change place. Is that clear?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Perfectly.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then let\rquote s try it this one last time.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Susan Calvin sat in the chair, silent, eyes restless. A weight dropped, crashed downward; then pounded aside at the last moment under the synchronized thump of a sudden force beam.\par
\tab And a single robot jerked upright and took two steps.\par
\tab And stopped.\par
\tab But Dr. Calvin was upright, and her finger pointed to him sharply. \ldblquote Nestor 10, come here,\rdblquote  she cried, \ldblquote\i come here!\i0  COME HERE!\rdblquote\par
\tab Slowly, reluctantly, the robot took another step forward. The psychologist shouted at the top of her voice, without taking her eyes from the robot, \ldblquote Get every other robot out of this place, somebody. Get them out quickly, and \i keep\i0  them out.\rdblquote\par
\tab Somewhere within reach of her ears there was noise, and the thud of hard feet upon the floor. She did not look away.\par
\tab Nestor 10 -- if it was Nestor 10 -- took another step, and then, under force of her imperious gesture, two more. He was only ten feet away, when he spoke harshly, \ldblquote I have been told to be lost-\rdblquote\par
\tab Another stop. \ldblquote I must not disobey. They have not found me so far -- He would think me a failure -- He told me -- But it\rquote s not so -- I am powerful and intelligent-\rdblquote\par
\tab The words came in spurts.\par
\tab Another step. \ldblquote I know a good deal -- He would think... I mean I\rquote ve been found -- Disgraceful -- Not I -- I am intelligent -- And by just a master... who is weak -- Slow-\rdblquote\par
\tab Another step -- and one metal arm flew out suddenly to her shoulder, and she felt the weight bearing her down. Her throat constricted, and she felt a shriek tear through.\par
\tab Dimly, she heard Nestor 10\rquote s next words, \ldblquote No one must find me. No master-\rdblquote  and the cold metal was against her, and she was sinking under the weight of it.\par
\tab And then a queer, metallic sound, and she was on the ground with an unfelt thump, and a gleaming arm was heavy across her body. It did not move. Nor did Nestor 10, who sprawled beside her.\par
\tab And now faces were bending over her.\par
\tab Gerald Black was gasping, \ldblquote Are you hurt, Dr. Calvin?\rdblquote\par
\tab She shook her head feebly. They pried the arm off her and lifted her gently to her feet, \ldblquote What happened?\rdblquote\par
\tab Black said, \ldblquote I bathed the place in gamma rays for five seconds. We didn\rquote t know what was happening. It wasn\rquote t till the last second that we realized he was attacking you, and then there was no time for anything but a gamma field. He went down in an instant. There wasn\rquote t enough to harm you though. Don\rquote t worry about it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m not worried.\rdblquote  She closed her eyes and leaned for a moment upon his shoulder. \ldblquote I don\rquote t think I was attacked exactly. Nestor 10 was simply \i trying\i0  to do so. What was left of the First Law was still holding him back.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Susan Calvin and Peter Bogert, two weeks after their first meeting with Major-general Kallner had their last. Work at Hyper Base had been resumed. The trading ship with its sixty-two normal NS-2\rquote s was gone to wherever it was bound, with an officially imposed story to explain its two weeks\rquote  delay. The government cruiser was making ready to carry the two roboticists back to Earth.\par
\tab Kallner was once again a-gleam in dress uniform. His white gloves shone as he shook hands.\par
\tab Calvin said, \ldblquote The other modified Nestors are, of course, to be destroyed.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote They will be. We\rquote ll make shift with normal robots, or, if necessary, do without.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Good.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But tell me -- you haven\rquote t explained -- how was it done?\rdblquote\par
\tab She smiled tightly, \ldblquote Oh, that. I would have told you in advance if I had been more certain of its working. You see, Nestor 10 had a superiority complex that was becoming more radical all the time. He liked to think that he and other robots knew more than human beings. It was becoming very important for him to think so.\par
\tab\ldblquote We knew that. So we warned every robot in advance that gamma rays would kill them, which it would, and we further warned them all that gamma rays would be between them and myself. So they all stayed where they were, naturally. By Nestor 10\rquote s own logic in the previous test they had all decided that there was no point in trying to save a human being if they were sure to die before they could do it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, yes, Dr. Calvin, I understand that. But why did Nestor 10 himself leave his seat?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote AH! That was a little arrangement between myself and your young Mr. Black. You see it wasn\rquote t gamma rays that flooded the area between myself and the robots -- but infrared rays. Just ordinary heat rays, absolutely harmless. Nestor 10 knew they were infrared and harmless and so he began to dash out, as he expected the rest would do, under First Law compulsion. It was only a fraction of a second too late that he remembered that the normal NS-2\rquote s could detect radiation, but could not identify the type. That he himself could only identify wavelengths by virtue of the training he had received at Hyper Base, under mere human beings, was a little too humiliating to remember for just a moment. To the normal robots the area was fatal because we had told them it would be, and only Nestor 10 knew we were lying.\par
\tab\ldblquote And just for a moment he forgot, or didn\rquote t want to remember, that other robots might be more ignorant than human beings. His very superiority caught him. Good-by, general.\rdblquote  \par
\f3\par
\f0\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Risk\par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\i\tab\i0 Hyper Base had lived for this day. Spaced about the gallery of the viewing room, in order and precedence strictly dictated by protocol, was a group of officials, scientists, technicians and others who could only be lumped under the general classification of \ldblquote personnel.\rdblquote  In accordance with their separate temperaments they waited hopefully, uneasily, breathlessly, eagerly, or fearfully for this culmination of their efforts. \par
\tab The hollowed interior of the asteroid known as Hyper Base had become for this day the center of a sphere of iron security that extended out for ten thousand miles. No ship might enter that sphere and live. No message might leave without scrutiny. \par
\tab A hundred miles away, more or less, a small asteroid moved neatly in the orbit into which it had been urged a year before, an orbit that ringed Hyper Base in as perfect a circle as could be managed. The asteroidlet\rquote s identity number was H937, but no one on Hyper Base called it anything but It. (\ldblquote Have you been out on it today?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The general\rquote s on it, blowing his top,\rdblquote  and eventually the impersonal pronoun achieved the dignity of capitalization.) \par
\tab On It, unoccupied now as zero second approached, was the \i Parsec, \i0 the only ship of its kind ever built in the history of man. It lay, unmanned, ready for its takeoff into the inconceivable. \par
\tab Gerald Black, who, as one of the bright young men in etherics engineering, rated a front-row view, cracked his large knuckles, then wiped his sweating palms on his stained white smock and said sourly, \ldblquote Why don\rquote t you bother the general, or Her Ladyship there?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Nigel Ronson, of Interplanetary Press, looked briefly across the gallery toward the glitter of Major-general Richard Kallner and the unremarkable woman at his side, scarcely visible in the glare of his dress uniform. He said, \ldblquote I would. except that I\rquote m interested in news.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Ronson was short and plump. He painstakingly wore his hair in a quarter-inch bristle, his shirt collar open and his trouser leg ankle-short, in faithful imitation of the newsmen who were stock characters on TV shows. He was a capable reporter nevertheless. \par
\tab Black was stocky, and his dark hairline left little room for forehead, but his mind was as keen as his strong fingers were blunt. He said, \ldblquote They\rquote ve got all the news.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Nuts,\rdblquote  said Ronson. \ldblquote Kallner\rquote s got no body under that gold braid. Strip him and you\rquote ll find only a conveyer belt dribbling orders downward and shooting responsibility upward.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Black found himself at the point of a grin but squeezed it down. He said. \ldblquote What about the Madam Doctor?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Dr. Susan Calvin of U. S. Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation.\rdblquote  intoned the reporter. \ldblquote The lady with hyperspace where her heart ought to be and liquid helium in her eyes. She\rquote d pass through the sun and come out the other end encased in frozen flame.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Black came even closer to a grin. \ldblquote How about Director Schloss, then?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Ronson said glibly, \ldblquote He knows too much. Between spending his time fanning the feeble flicker of intelligence in his listener and dimming his own brains for fear of blinding said listener permanently by sheer force of brilliance, he ends up saying nothing.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Black showed his teeth this time. \ldblquote Now suppose you tell me why you pick on me.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Easy, doctor. I looked at you and figured you\rquote re too ugly to be stupid and too smart to miss a possible opportunity at some good personal publicity.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Remind me to knock you down someday.\rdblquote  said Black. \ldblquote What do you want to know?\rdblquote  \par
\tab The man from Interplanetary Press pointed into the pit and said, \ldblquote Is that thing going to work?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Black looked downward too, and felt a vague chill riffle over him like the thin night wind of Mars. The pit was one large television screen, divided in two. One half was an over-all view of It. On It\rquote s pitted gray surface was the \i Parse, \i0 glowing mutedly in the feeble sunlight. The other half showed the control room of the \i Parsec. \i0 There was no life in that control room. In the pilot\rquote s seat was an object the vague humanity of which did not for a moment obscure the fact that it was only a positronic robot. \par
\tab Black said, \ldblquote Physically, mister, this will work. That robot will leave and come back. Space! how we succeeded with that part of it. I watched it all. I came here two weeks after I took my degree in etheric physics and I\rquote ve been here, barring leave and furloughs, ever since. I was here when we sent the first piece of iron wire to Jupiter\rquote s orbit and back through hyperspace--and got back iron filings. I was here when we sent white mice there and back and ended up with mincemeat. \par
\tab\ldblquote We spent six months establishing an even hyperfield after that. We had to wipe out lags of as little as tenths of thousandths of seconds from point to point in matter being subjected to hypertravel. After that, the white mice started coming back intact. I remember when we celebrated for a week because one white mouse came back alive and lived ten minutes before dying. Now they live as long as we can take proper care of them.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Ronson said, \ldblquote Great!\rdblquote  \par
\tab Black looked at him obliquely. \ldblquote I said, \i physically \i0 it will work. Those white mice that come back--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No minds. Not even little white mice-type minds. They won\rquote t eat. They have to be force-fed. They won\rquote t mate. They won\rquote t run. They sit. They sit. They sit. That\rquote s all. We finally worked up to sending a chimpanzee. It was pitiful. It was too close to a man to make watching it bearable. It came back a hunk of meat that could make crawling motions. It could move its eyes and sometimes it would scrabble. It whined and sat in its own wastes without the sense to move. Somebody shot it one day, and we were all grateful for that. I tell you this, fella, nothing that ever went into hyperspace has come back with a mind.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Is this for publication?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote  After this experiment, maybe. They expect great things of it.\rdblquote  A comer of Black\rquote s mouth lifted. \par
\tab\ldblquote You don\rquote t?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote With a robot at the controls? No.\rdblquote  Almost automatically Black\rquote s mind went back to that interlude, some years back, in which he had been unwittingly responsible for the near loss of a robot. He thought of the Nestor robots that filled Hyper Base with smooth, ingrained knowledge and perfectionist shortcomings. Mat was the use of talking about robots? He was not, by nature, a missionary. \par
\tab But then Ronson, filling the continuing silence with a bit of small talk, said, as he replaced the wad of gum in his mouth with a fresh piece, \ldblquote Don\rquote t tell me \i you\rquote re \i0 anti-robot. I\rquote ve always heard that scientists are the one group that aren\rquote t anti-robot.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Black\rquote s patience snapped. He said, \ldblquote That\rquote s true, and that\rquote s the trouble. Technology\rquote s gone robot-happy. Any job has to have a robot, or the engineer in charge feels cheated. You want a doorstop; buy a robot with a thick foot. That\rquote s a serious thing.\rdblquote  He was speaking in a low, intense voice, shoving the words directly into Ronson\rquote s ear. \par
\tab Ronson managed to extricate his arm. He said, \ldblquote Hey, I\rquote m no robot. Don\rquote t take it out on me. I\rquote m a man. \i Homo sapiens. \i0 You just broke an arm bone of mine. Isn\rquote t that proof?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Having started, however, it took more than frivolity to stop Black. He said, \ldblquote Do you know how much time was wasted on this setup? We\rquote ve had a perfectly generalized robot built and we\rquote ve given it one order. Period. I heard the order given. I\rquote ve memorized it. Short and sweet. \lquote Seize the bar with a firm grip. Pull it toward you firmly. \i Firmly! \i0 Maintain your hold until the control board informs you that you have passed through hyperspace twice.\rquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote So at zero time, the robot will grab the control bar and pull it firmly toward himself. His hands are heated to blood temperature. Once the control bar is in position, heat expansion completes contact and hyperfield is initiated. If anything happens to his brain during the first trip through hyperspace, it doesn\rquote t matter. All he needs to do is maintain position one microinstant and the ship will come back and the hyperfield will flip off. Nothing can go wrong. Then we study all its generalized reactions and see what, if anything, has gone wrong.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Ronson looked blank. \ldblquote This all makes sense to me.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Does it?\rdblquote  asked Black bitterly. \ldblquote And what will you learn from a robot brain? It\rquote s positronic, ours is cellular. It\rquote s metal, ours is protein. They\rquote re not the same. There\rquote s no comparison. Yet I\rquote m convinced that on the basis of what they learn, or think they learn, from the robot, they\rquote ll send men into hyperspace. Poor devils! Look, it\rquote s not a question of dying. It\rquote s coming back mindless. If you\rquote d seen the chimpanzee, you\rquote d know what I mean. Death is clean and final. The other thing--\rdblquote  \par
\tab The reporter said, \ldblquote Have you talked about this to anyone?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Black said, \ldblquote Yes. They say what you said. They say I\rquote m anti-robot and that settles everything. --Look at Susan Calvin there. You can bet \i she \i0 isn\rquote t anti-robot. She came all the way from Earth to watch this experiment. If it had been a man at the controls, she wouldn\rquote t have bothered. But what\rquote s the use!\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Hey,\rdblquote  said Ronson, \ldblquote don\rquote t stop now. There\rquote s more.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote More what?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote More problems. You\rquote ve explained the robot. But why the security provisions all of a sudden?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Huh?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Come \i on. \i0 Suddenly I can\rquote t send dispatches. Suddenly ships can\rquote t come into the area. What\rquote s going on? This is just another experiment. The public knows about hyperspace and what you boys are trying to do, so what\rquote s the big secret?\rdblquote  \par
\tab The backwash of anger was still seeping over Black, anger against the robots, anger against Susan Calvin, anger at the memory of that little lost robot in his past. There was some to spare, he found, for the irritating little newsman and his irritating little questions. \par
\tab He said to himself, Let\rquote s see how he takes it. He said, \ldblquote You really want to know?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You bet.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote All right. We\rquote ve never initiated a hyperfield for any object a millionth as large as that ship, or to send anything a millionth as far. That means that the hyperfield that will soon be initiated is some million million times as energetic as any we\rquote ve ever handled. We\rquote re not sure what it can do.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What do you mean?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Theory tells us that the ship will be neatly deposited out near Sirius and neatly brought back here. But how large a volume of space about the \i Parsec \i0 will be carried with it? It\rquote s hard to tell. We don\rquote t know enough about hyperspace. The asteroid on which the ship sits may go with it and, you know, if our calculations are even a little off, it may never be brought back here. It may return, say, twenty billion miles away. And there\rquote s a chance that more of space than just the asteroid may be shifted.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote How much more?\rdblquote  demanded Ronson. \par
\tab\ldblquote We can\rquote t say. There\rquote s an element of statistical uncertainty. That\rquote s why no ships must approach too closely. That\rquote s why we\rquote re keeping things quiet till the experiment is safely over.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Ronson swallowed audibly. \ldblquote Supposing it reaches to Hyper Base?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote There\rquote s a chance of it,\rdblquote  said Black with composure. \ldblquote Not much of a chance or Director Schloss wouldn\rquote t be here, I assure you. Still, there\rquote s a mathematical chance.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The newsman looked at his watch. \ldblquote When does this all happen?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote In about five minutes. You\rquote re not nervous, are you?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  said Ronson, but he sat down blankly and asked no more questions. \par
\tab Black leaned outward over the railing. The final minutes were ticking off. \par
\tab\i The robot moved! \par
\tab\i0 There was a mass sway of humanity forward at that sign of motion and the lights dimmed in order to sharpen and heighten the brightness of the scene below. But so far it was only the first motion. The hands of the robot approached the starting bar. \par
\tab Black waited for the final second when the robot would pull the bar toward himself. Black could imagine a number of possibilities, and all sprang nearly simultaneously to mind. \par
\tab There would first be the short flicker that would indicate the departure through hyperspace and return. Even though the time interval was exceedingly short, return would not be to the \i precise \i0 starting position and there would be a flicker. There always was. \par
\tab Then, when the ship returned, it might be found, perhaps, that the devices to even the field over the huge volume of the ship had proved inadequate. The robot might be scrap steel. The ship might be scrap steel. \par
\tab Or their calculations might be somewhat off and the ship might never return. Or worse still, Hyper Base might go with the ship and never return. \par
\tab Or, of course, all might be well. The ship might flicker and be there in perfect shape. The robot, with mind untouched, would get out of his seat and signal a successful completion of the first voyage of a man-made object beyond the gravitational control of the sun. \par
\tab The last minute was ticking off. \par
\tab The last second came and the robot seized the starting bar and pulled it firmly toward himself--\par
\tab Nothing! \par
\tab No flicker. Nothing! \par
\tab The \i Parsec \i0 never left normal space. \par
\par
\tab Major-general Kallner took off his officer\rquote s cap to mop his glistening forehead and in doing so exposed a bald head that would have aged him ten years in appearance if his drawn expression had not already done so. Nearly an hour had passed since the \i Parsec\rquote s \i0 failure and nothing had been done. \par
\tab\ldblquote How did it happen? How did it happen? I don\rquote t understand it.\rdblquote  Dr. Mayer Schloss, who at forty was the \ldblquote grand old man\rdblquote  of the young science of hyperfield matrices, said hopelessly, \ldblquote There is nothing wrong with the basic theory. I\rquote ll swear my life away on that. There\rquote s a mechanical failure on the ship somewhere. Nothing more.\rdblquote  He had said that a dozen times. \par
\tab\ldblquote I thought everything was tested.\rdblquote  That had been said too. \ldblquote It was, sir, it was. Just the same--\rdblquote  And that. \par
\tab They sat staring at each other in Kallner\rquote s office, which was now out of bounds for all personnel. Neither quite dared to look at the third person present. \par
\tab Susan Calvin\rquote s thin lips and pale cheeks bore no expression. She said coolly, \ldblquote You may console yourself with what I have told you before. It is doubtful whether anything useful would have resulted.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote This is not the time for the old argument,\rdblquote  groaned Schloss. \ldblquote I am not arguing. U. S. Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation will supply robots made up to specification to any legal purchaser for any legal use. We did our part, however. We informed you that we could not guarantee being able to draw conclusions with regard to the human brain from anything that happened to the positronic brain. Our responsibility ends there. There is no argument.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Great space,\rdblquote  said General Kallner, in a tone that made the expletive feeble indeed. \ldblquote Let\rquote s not discuss that.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What else was there to do?\rdblquote  muttered Schloss, driven to the subject nevertheless. \ldblquote Until we know exactly what\rquote s happening to the mind in hyperspace we can\rquote t progress. The robot\rquote s mind is at least capable of mathematical analysis. It\rquote s a start, a beginning. And until we try--\rdblquote  He looked up wildly, \ldblquote But your robot isn\rquote t the point, Dr. Calvin. We\rquote re not worried about him or his positronic brain. Damn it, woman--\rdblquote  His voice rose nearly to a scream. \par
\tab The robopsychologist cut him to silence with a voice that scarcely raised itself from its level monotone. \ldblquote No hysteria, man. In my lifetime I have witnessed many crises and I have never seen one solved by hysteria. I want answers to some questions.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Schloss\rquote s full lips trembled and his deep-set eyes seemed to retreat into their sockets and leave pits of shadow in their places. He said harshly, \ldblquote Are you trained in etheric engineering?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That is an irrelevant question. I am Chief Robopsychologist of the United States Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation. That is a positronic robot sitting at the controls of the \i Parsec. \i0 Like all such robots, it is leased and not sold. I have a right to demand information concerning any experiment in which such a robot is involved.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Talk to her, Schloss,\rdblquote  barked General Kallner. \ldblquote She\rquote s--she\rquote s all right.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Dr. Calvin turned her pale eyes on the general, who had been present at the time of the affair of the lost robot and who therefore could be expected not to make the mistake of underestimating her. (Schloss had been out on sick leave at the time, and hearsay is not as effective as personal experience.) \ldblquote Thank you, general,\rdblquote  she said. \par
\tab Schloss looked helplessly from one to the other and muttered, \ldblquote What do you want to know?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Obviously my first question is, What \i is \i0 your problem if the robot is not?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But the problem is an obvious one. The ship hasn\rquote t moved. Can\rquote t you see that? Are you blind?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I see quite well. What I don\rquote t see is your obvious panic over some mechanical failure. Don\rquote t you people expect failure sometimes?\rdblquote  \par
\tab The general muttered, \ldblquote It\rquote s the expense. The ship was hellishly expensive. The World Congress--appropriations--\rdblquote  He bogged down. \par
\tab\ldblquote The ship\rquote s still there. A slight overhaul and correction would involve no great trouble.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Schloss had taken hold of himself. The expression on his face was one of a man who had caught his soul in both hands, shaken it hard and set it on its feet. His voice had even achieved a kind of patience. \ldblquote Dr. Calvin, when I say a mechanical failure, I mean something like a relay jammed by a speck of dust, a connection inhibited by a spot of grease, a transistor balked by a momentary heat expansion. A dozen other things. A hundred other things. Any of them can be quite temporary. They can stop taking effect at any moment.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Which means that at any moment the \i Parsec \i0 may flash through hyperspace and back after all.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Exactly. Now do you understand?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Not at all. Wouldn\rquote t that be just what you want?\rdblquote  Schloss made a motion that looked like the start of an effort to seize a double handful of hair and yank. He said, \ldblquote You are not an etherics engineer.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Does that tongue-tie you, doctor?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We had the ship set,\rdblquote  said Schloss despairingly, \ldblquote to make a jump from a definite point in space relative to the center of gravity of the galaxy to another point. The return was to be to the original point corrected for the motion of the solar system. In the hour that has passed since the \i Parsec \i0 should have moved, the solar system has shifted position. The original parameters to which the hyperfield is adjusted no longer apply. The ordinary laws of motion do not apply to hyperspace and it would take us a week of computation to calculate a new set of parameters.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You mean that if the ship moves now it will return to some unpredictable point thousands of miles away?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Unpredictable?\rdblquote  Schloss smiled hollowly. \ldblquote Yes, I should call it that. The \i Parsec \i0 might end up in the Andromeda nebula or in the center of the sun. In any case the odds are against our ever seeing it again.\rdblquote\par
\tab Susan Calvin nodded. \ldblquote The situation then is that if the ship disappears, as it may do at any moment, a few billion dollars of the taxpayers\rquote  money may be irretrievably gone, and--it will be said--through bungling.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Major-general Kallner could not have winced more noticeably if he had been poked with a sharp pin in the fundament. \par
\tab The robopsychologist went on, \ldblquote Somehow, then, the ship\rquote s hyperfield mechanism must be put out of action, and that as soon as possible. Something will have to be unplugged or jerked loose or flicked off.\rdblquote  She was speaking half to herself. \par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s not that simple,\rdblquote  said Schloss. \ldblquote I can\rquote t explain it completely, since you\rquote re not an etherics expert. It\rquote s like trying to break an ordinary electric circuit by slicing through high-tension wire with garden shears. It could be disastrous. It \i would \i0 be disastrous.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Do you mean that any attempt to shut off the mechanism would hurl the ship into hyperspace?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Any \i random \i0 attempt would \i probably \i0 do so. Hyper-forces are not limited by the speed of light. It is very probable that they have no limit of velocity at all. It makes things extremely difficult. The only reasonable solution is to discover the nature of the failure and learn from that a safe way of disconnecting the field.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And how do you propose to do that, Dr. Schloss?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Schloss said, \ldblquote It seems to me that the only thing to do is to send one of our Nestor robots--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No! Don\rquote t be foolish,\rdblquote  broke in Susan Calvin. \par
\tab Schloss said, freezingly, \ldblquote The Nestors are acquainted with the problems of etherics engineering. They will be ideally--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Out of the question. You cannot use one of our positronic robots for such a purpose without my permission. You do not have it and you shall not get it.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What is the alternative?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You must send one of your engineers.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Schloss shook his head violently, \ldblquote Impossible. The risk involved is too great. If we lose a ship \i and \i0 man--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Nevertheless, you may not use a Nestor robot, or any robot.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The general said, \ldblquote I--I must get in touch with Earth. This whole problem has to go to a higher level.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Susan Calvin said with asperity, \ldblquote I wouldn\rquote t just yet if I were you, general. You will be throwing yourself on the government\rquote s mercy without a suggestion or plan of action of your own. You will not come out very well, I am certain.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But what is there to do?\rdblquote  The general was using his handkerchief again. \par
\tab\ldblquote Send a man. There is no alternative.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Schloss had paled to a pasty gray. \ldblquote It\rquote s easy to say, send a man. But whom?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ve been considering that problem. Isn\rquote t there a young man--his name is Black--whom I met on the occasion of my previous visit to Hyper Base?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Dr. Gerald Black?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I think so. Yes. He was a bachelor then. Is he still?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, I believe so.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I would suggest then that he be brought here, say, in fifteen minutes, and that meanwhile I have access to his records.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Smoothly she had assumed authority in this situation, and neither Kallner nor Schloss made any attempt to dispute that authority with her. \par
\par
\tab Black had seen Susan Calvin from a distance on this, her second visit to Hyper Base. He had made no move to cut down the distance. Now that he had been called into her presence, he found himself staring at her with revulsion and distaste. He scarcely noticed Dr. Schloss and General Kallner standing behind her. \par
\tab He remembered the last time he had faced her thus, undergoing a cold dissection for the sake of a lost robot. \par
\tab Dr. Calvin\rquote s cool gray eyes were fixed steadily on his hot brown ones. \par
\tab\ldblquote Dr. Black,\rdblquote  she said, \ldblquote I believe you understand the situation.\rdblquote  Black said, \ldblquote I do.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Something will have to be done. The ship is too expensive to lose. The bad publicity will probably mean the end of the project.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Black nodded. \ldblquote I\rquote ve been thinking that.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I hope you\rquote ve also thought that it will be necessary for someone to board the \i Parsec, \i0 find out what\rquote s wrong, and--uh--deactivate it.\rdblquote  \par
\tab There was a moment\rquote s pause. Black said harshly, \ldblquote What fool would go?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Kallner frowned and looked at Schloss, who bit his lip and looked nowhere. \par
\tab Susan Calvin said, \ldblquote There is, of course, the possibility of accidental activation of the hyperfield, in which case the ship may drive beyond all possible reach. On the other hand, it may return somewhere within the solar system. If so, no expense or effort will be spared to recover man and ship.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Black said, \ldblquote Idiot and ship! Just a correction.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Susan Calvin disregarded the comment. She said, \ldblquote I have asked General Kallner\rquote s permission to put it to you. It is you who must go.\rdblquote  \par
\tab No pause at all here. Black said, in the flattest possible way, \ldblquote Lady, I\rquote m not volunteering.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote There are not a dozen men on Hyper Base with sufficient knowledge to have any chance at all of carrying this thing through successfully. Of those who have the knowledge, I\rquote ve selected you on the basis of our previous acquaintanceship. You will bring to this task an understanding--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Look, I\rquote m \i not \i0 volunteering.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You have no choice. Surely you will face your responsibility?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote\i My \i0 responsibility? What makes it mine?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The fact that you are best fitted for the job.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Do you know the risk?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I think I do,\rdblquote  said Susan Calvin. \par
\tab\ldblquote I know you don\rquote t. You never saw that chimpanzee. Look, when I said \lquote idiot and ship\rquote  I wasn\rquote t expressing an opinion. I was telling you a fact. I\rquote d risk my life if I had to. Not with pleasure, maybe, but I\rquote d risk it. Risking idiocy, a lifetime of animal mindlessness, is something I won\rquote t risk, that\rquote s all.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Susan Calvin glanced thoughtfully at the young engineer\rquote s sweating, angry face. \par
\tab Black shouted, \ldblquote Send one of your robots, one of your NS-2 jobs.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The psychologist\rquote s eye reflected a kind of cold glitter. She said with deliberation, \ldblquote Yes, Dr. Schloss suggested that. But the NS-2 robots are leased by our firm, not sold. They cost millions of dollars apiece, you know. I represent the company and I have decided that they are too expensive to be risked in a matter such as this.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Black lifted his hands. They clenched and trembled close to his chest as though he were forcibly restraining them. \ldblquote You\rquote re telling me--you\rquote re saying you want me to go instead of a robot because I\rquote m more expendable.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It comes to that, yes.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Dr. Calvin,\rdblquote  said Black, \ldblquote I\rquote d see you in hell first.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That statement might be almost literally true, Dr. Black. As General Kallner will confirm, you are ordered to take this assignment. You are under quasi-military law here, I understand, and if you refuse an assignment, you can be court-martialed. A case like this will mean Mercury prison and I believe that will be close enough to hell to make your statement uncomfortably accurate were I to visit you, though I probably would not. On the other hand, if you agree to board the \i Parsec \i0 and carry through this job, it will mean a great deal for your career.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Black glared, red-eyed, at her. \par
\tab Susan Calvin said, \ldblquote Give the man five minutes to think about this, General Kallner, and get a ship ready.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Two security guards escorted Black out of the room. \par
\par
\tab Gerald Black felt cold. His limbs moved as though they were not part of him. It was as though he were watching himself from some remote, safe place, watching himself board a ship and make ready to leave for It and for the \i Parsec. \par
\tab\i0 He couldn\rquote t quite believe it. He had bowed his head suddenly and said, \ldblquote I\rquote ll go.\rdblquote  \par
\tab But why? \par
\tab He had never thought of himself as the hero type. Then why? Partly, of course, there was the threat of Mercury prison. Partly it was the awful reluctance to appear a coward in the eyes of those who knew him, that deeper cowardice that was behind half the bravery in the world. \par
\tab Mostly, though, it was something else. \par
\tab Ronson of Interplanetary Press had stopped Black momentarily as he was on his way to the ship. Black looked at Ronson\rquote s Bushed face and said. \ldblquote What do you want?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Ronson babbled. \ldblquote Listen! When you get back, I want it exclusive. I\rquote ll arrange any payment you want--anything you want--\rdblquote  \par
\tab Black pushed him aside, sent him sprawling, and walked on. \par
\tab The ship had a crew of two. Neither spoke to him. Their glances slid over and under and around him. Black didn\rquote t mind that. They were scared spitless themselves and their ship was approaching the \i Parsec \i0 like a kitten skittering sideways toward the first dog it had ever seen. He could do without \i them. \par
\tab\i0 There was only one face that he kept seeing. The anxious expression of General Kallner and the look of synthetic determination on Schloss\rquote s face were momentary punctures on his consciousness. They healed almost at once. It was Susan Calvin\rquote s unruffled face that he saw. Her calm expressionlessness as he boarded the ship. \par
\tab He stared into the blackness where Hyper Base had already disappeared into space--\par
\tab Susan Calvin! Doctor Susan Calvin! Robopsychologist Susan Calvin! The robot that walks like a woman! \par
\tab What were her three laws, he wondered. First Law: Thou shalt protect the robot with all thy might and all thy heart and all thy soul. Second Law: Thou shalt hold the interests of U. S. Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation holy provided it interfereth not with the First Law. Third Law: Thou shalt give passing consideration to a human being provided it interfereth not with the First and Second laws. \par
\tab Had she ever been young, he wondered savagely? Had she ever felt one honest emotion? \par
\tab Space! How he wanted to do something--something that would take that frozen look of nothing off her face. \par
\tab And he would! \par
\tab By the stars, he would. Let him but get out of this sane and he would see her smashed and her company with her and all the vile brood of robots with them. It was that thought that was driving him more than fear of prison or desire for social prestige. It was that thought that almost robbed him of fear altogether. Almost. \par
\tab One of the pilots muttered at him, without looking, \ldblquote You can drop down from here. It\rquote s half a mile under.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Black said bitterly, \ldblquote Aren\rquote t you landing?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Strict orders not to. The vibration of the landing might--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What about the vibration of my landing?\rdblquote  The pilot said, \ldblquote I\rquote ve got my orders.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Black said no more but climbed into his suit and waited for the inner lock to open. A tool kit was welded firmly to the metal of the suit about his right thigh. \par
\tab Just as he stepped into the lock, the earpieces inside his helmet rumbled at him. \ldblquote Wish you luck, doctor.\rdblquote  \par
\tab It took a moment for him to realize that it came from the two men aboard ship, pausing in their eagerness to get out of that haunted volume of space to give him that much, anyway. \par
\tab\ldblquote Thanks,\rdblquote  said Black awkwardly, half resentfully. \par
\tab And then he was out in space, tumbling slowly as the result of the slightly off-center thrust of feet against outer lock. \par
\tab He could see the \i Parsec \i0 waiting for him, and by looking between his legs at the right moment of the tumble he could see the long hiss of the lateral jets of the ship that had brought him, as it turned to leave. \par
\tab He was alone! Space, he was alone! \par
\tab Could any man in history ever have felt so alone? \par
\tab Would he know, he wondered sickly, if--if anything happened? Would there be any moments of realization? Would he feel his mind fade and the light of reason and thought dim and blank out? \par
\tab Or would it happen suddenly, like the cut of a force knife? In either case\par
\tab The thought of the chimpanzee, blank-eyed, shivering with mindless terrors, was fresh within him. \par
\par
\tab The asteroid was twenty feet below him now. It swam through space with an absolutely even motion. Barring human agency, no grain of sand upon it had as much as stirred through astronomical periods of time. \par
\tab In the ultimate jarlessness of It, some small particle of grit encumbered a delicate working unit on board the \i Parsec, \i0 or a speck of impure sludge in the fine oil that bathed some moving part had stopped it. \par
\tab Perhaps it required only a small vibration, a tiny tremor originating from the collision of mass and mass to unencumber that moving part, bringing it down along its appointed path, creating the hyperfield, blossoming it outward like an incredibly ripening rose. \par
\tab His body was going to touch It and he drew his limbs together in his anxiety to \ldblquote hit easy.\rdblquote  He did not want to touch the asteroid. His skin crawled with intense aversion. \par
\tab It came closer. Now--now--\par
\par
\tab Nothing! \par
\tab There was only the continuing touch of the asteroid, the uncanny moments of slowly mounting pressure that resulted from a mass of 250 pounds (himself plus suit) possessing full inertia but no weight to speak of. \par
\tab Black opened his eyes slowly and let the sight of stars enter. The sun was a glowing marble, its brilliance muted by the polarizing shield over his faceplate. The stars were correspondingly feeble but they made up the familiar arrangement. With sun and constellations normal, he was still in the solar system. He could even see Hyper Base, a small, dim crescent. \par
\tab He stiffened in shock at the sudden voice in his ear. It was Schloss. \par
\tab Schloss said, \ldblquote We\rquote ve got you in view, Dr. Black. You are not alone!\rdblquote  \par
\tab Black could have laughed at the phraseology, but he only said in a low, clear voice, \ldblquote Clear off. If you\rquote ll do that, you won\rquote t be distracting me.\rdblquote  \par
\tab A pause. Schloss\rquote s voice, more cajoling, \ldblquote If you care to report as you go along, it may relieve the tension.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote ll get information from me when I get back. Not before.\rdblquote  He said it bitterly, and bitterly his metal-encased fingers moved to the control panel in his chest and blanked out the suit\rquote s radio. They could talk into a vacuum now. He had his own plans. If he got out of this sane, it would be \i his \i0 show. \par
\tab He got to his feet with infinite caution and stood on It. He swayed a bit as involuntary muscular motions, tricked by the almost total lack of gravity into an endless series of overbalancings, pulled him this way and that. On Hyper Base there was a pseudo-gravitic field to hold them down. Black found that a portion of his mind was sufficiently detached to remember that and appreciate it in \i absentia. \par
\tab\i0 The sun had disappeared behind a crag. The stars wheeled visibly in time to the asteroid\rquote s one-hour rotation period. \par
\tab He could see the \i Parsec \i0 from where he stood and now he moved toward it slowly, carefully--tippy-toe almost. (No vibration. No vibration. The words ran pleadingly through his mind.) \par
\tab Before he was completely aware of the distance he had crossed, he was at the ship. He was at the foot of the line of hand grips that led to the outer lock. \par
\tab There he paused. \par
\tab The ship looked quite normal. Or at least it looked normal except for the circle of steely knobs that girdled it one third of the way up, and a second circle two thirds of the way up. At the moment, they must be straining to become the source poles of the hyperfield. \par
\tab A strange desire to reach up and fondle one of them came over Black. It was one of those irrational impulses, like the momentary thought, \ldblquote What if I jumped?\rdblquote  that is almost inevitable when one stares down from a high building. \par
\tab Black took a deep breath and felt himself go clammy as he spread the fingers of both hands and then lightly, so lightly, put each hand flat against the side of the ship. \par
\par
\tab Nothing! He seized the lowest hand grip and pulled himself up, carefully. He longed to be as experienced at null-gravity manipulation as were the construction men. You had to exert enough force to overcome inertia and then stop. Continue the pull a second too long and you would overbalance, careen into the side of the ship. \par
\tab He climbed slowly, tippy-fingers, his legs and hips swaying to the right as his left arm reached upward, to the left as his right arm reached upward. \par
\tab A dozen rungs, and his fingers hovered over the contact that would open the outer lock. The safety marker was a tiny green smear. \par
\tab Once again he hesitated. This was the first use he would make of the ship\rquote s power. His mind ran over the wiring diagrams and the force distributions. If he pressed the contact, power would be siphoned off the micropile to pull open the massive slab of metal that was the outer lock. \par
\tab Well? What was the use? Unless he had some idea as to what was wrong, there was no way of telling the effect of the power diversion. He sighed and touched contact. \par
\tab Smoothly, with neither jar nor sound, a segment of the ship curled open. Black took one more look at the friendly constellations (they had not changed) and stepped into the softly illuminated cavity. The outer lock closed behind him. \par
\tab Another contact now. The inner lock had to be opened. Again he paused to consider. Air pressure within the ship would drop ever so slightly as the inner lock opened, and seconds would pass before the ship\rquote s electrolyzers could make up the loss. \par
\tab Well? The Bosch posterior-plate, to name one item, was sensitive to pressure, but surely not \i this \i0 sensitive. \par
\tab He sighed again, more softly (the skin of his fear was growing calloused) and touched the contact. The inner lock opened. \par
\tab He stepped into the pilot room of the \i Parsec, \i0 and his heart jumped oddly when the first thing he saw was the visiplate, set for reception and powdered with stars. He forced himself to look at them. \par
\par
\tab Nothing! \par
\tab Cassiopeia was visible. The constellations were normal and he was inside the \i Parsec. \i0 Somehow he could feel the worst was over. Having come so far and remained within the solar system, having kept his mind so far, he felt something that was faintly like confidence begin to seep back. \par
\tab There was an almost supernatural stillness about the \i Parsec. \i0 Black had been in many ships in his life and there had always been the sounds of life, even if only the scuffing of a shoe or a cabin boy humming in the corridor. Here the very beating of his own heart seemed muffled to soundlessness. \par
\tab The robot in the pilot\rquote s seat had its back to him. It indicated by no response that it was aware of his having entered. \par
\tab Black bared his teeth in a savage grin and said sharply, \ldblquote Release the bar! Stand up!\rdblquote  The sound of his voice was thunderous in the close quarters. \par
\tab Too late he dreaded the air vibrations his voice set up, but the stars on the visiplate remained unchanged. \par
\tab The robot, of course, did not stir. It could receive no sensations of any sort. It could not even respond to the First Law. It was frozen in the unending middle of what should have been almost instantaneous process. \par
\tab He remembered the orders it had been given. They were open to no misunderstanding: \ldblquote Seize the bar with a firm grip. Pull it toward you firmly. Firmly! Maintain your hold until the control board informs you that you have passed through hyperspace twice.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Well, it had not yet passed through hyperspace once. Carefully, he moved closer to the robot. It sat there with the bar pulled firmly back between its knees. That brought the trigger mechanism almost into place. The temperature of his metal hands then curled that trigger, thermocouple fashion, just sufficiently for contact to be made. Automatically Black glanced at the thermometer reading set into the control board. The robot\rquote s hands were at 37 Centigrade, as they should be. \par
\tab He thought sardonically, Fine thing. I\rquote m alone with this machine and I can\rquote t do anything about it. \par
\tab What he would have liked to do was take a crowbar to it and smash it to filings. He enjoyed the flavor of that thought. He could see the horror on Susan Calvin\rquote s face (if any horror could creep through the ice, the horror of a smashed robot was it). Like all positronic robots, this one-shot was owned by U. S. Robots, had been made there, had been tested there. \par
\tab And having extracted what juice he could out of imaginary revenge, he sobered and looked about the ship. \par
\tab After all, progress so far had been zero. \par
\par
\tab Slowly, he removed his suit. Gently, he laid it on the rack. Gingerly, he walked from room to room, studying the large interlocking surfaces of the hyperatomic motor, following the cables, inspecting the field relays. \par
\tab He touched nothing. There were a dozen ways of deactivating the hyperfield, but each one would be ruinous unless he knew at least approximately where the error lay and let his exact course of procedure be guided by that. \par
\tab He found himself back at the control panel and cried in exasperation at the grave stolidity of the robot\rquote s broad back, \ldblquote Tell me, will you? What\rquote s wrong?\rdblquote  \par
\tab There was the urge to attack the ship\rquote s machinery at random. Tear at it and get it over with. He repressed the impulse firmly. If it took him a week, he would deduce, somehow, the proper point of attack. He owed that much to Dr. Susan Calvin and his plans for her. \par
\tab He turned slowly on his heel and considered. Every part of the ship, from the engine itself to each individual two-way toggle switch. had been exhaustively checked and tested on Hyper Base. It was almost impossible to believe that anything could go wrong. There wasn\rquote t a thing on board ship\par
\tab Well, yes, there was, of course. The robot! That had been tested at U. S. Robots and they, blast their devils\rquote  hides, could be assumed to be competent. \par
\tab What was it everyone always said: A robot can just naturally do a better job. \par
\tab It was the normal assumption, based in part on U. S. Robots\rquote  own advertising campaigns. They could make a robot that would be better than a man for a given purpose. Not \ldblquote as good as a man.\rdblquote  but \ldblquote better than a man.\rdblquote  \par
\tab And as Gerald Black stared at the robot and thought that, his brows contracted under his low forehead and his look became compounded of astonishment and a wild hope. \par
\tab He approached and circled the robot. He stared at its arms holding the control bar in trigger position, holding it forever so, unless the ship jumped or the robot\rquote s own power supply gave out. \par
\tab Black breathed. \ldblquote I bet. I \i bet.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\i0 He stepped away, considered deeply, He said. \ldblquote It\rquote s \i got \i0 to be.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He turned on ship\rquote s radio. Its carrier beam was already focused on Hyper Base. He barked into the mouthpiece. \ldblquote Hey, Schloss.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Schloss was prompt in his answer. \ldblquote Great Space. Black--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Never mind,\rdblquote  said Black crisply. \ldblquote No speeches. I just want to make sure you\rquote re watching.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, of course. We all are. Look--\rdblquote  \par
\tab But Black turned off the radio. He grinned with tight one-sidedness at the TV camera inside the pilot room and chose a portion of the hyperfield mechanism that would be in view. He didn\rquote t know how many people would be in the viewing room. There might be only Kallner, Schloss and Susan Calvin. There might be all personnel. In any case, he would give them something to watch. \par
\tab Relay Box # 3 was adequate for the purpose, he decided. It was located in a wall recess, coated over with a smooth cold-seamed panel. Black reached into his tool kit and removed the splayed, blunt-edged seamer. He pushed his space suit farther back on the rack (having turned it to bring the tool kit in reach) and turned to the relay box. \par
\tab Ignoring a last tingle of uneasiness, Black brought up the seamer, made contact at three separated points along the cold seam. The tool\rquote s force field worked deftly and quickly, the handle growing a trifle warm in his hand as the surge of energy came and left. The panel swung free. \par
\tab He glanced quickly, almost involuntarily, at the ship\rquote s visiplate. The stars were normal. He, himself, felt normal. \par
\tab That was the last bit of encouragement he needed. He raised his foot and smashed his shoe down on the feather-delicate mechanism within the recess. \par
\tab There was a splinter of glass, a twisting of metal, and a tiny spray of mercury droplets\par
\tab Black breathed heavily. He turned on the radio once more. \ldblquote Still there, Schloss?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, but--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then I report the hyperfield on board the \i Parsec \i0 to be deactivated. Come and get me.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab Gerald Black felt no more the hero than when he had left for the \i Parsec, \i0 but he found himself one just the same. The men who had brought him to the small asteroid came to take him off. They landed this time. They clapped his back. \par
\tab Hyper Base was a crowded mass of waiting personnel when the ship arrived, and Black was cheered. He waved at the throng and grinned, as was a hero\rquote s obligation, but he felt no triumph inside. Not yet. Only anticipation. Triumph would come later, when he met Susan Calvin. \par
\tab He paused before descending from the ship. He looked for her and did not see her. General Kallner was there, waiting, with all his soldierly stiffness restored and a bluff look of approval firmly plastered on his face. Mayer Schloss smiled nervously at him. Ronson of Interplanetary Press waved frantically. Susan Calvin was nowhere. \par
\tab He brushed Kallner and Schloss aside when he landed. \ldblquote I\rquote m going to wash and eat first.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He had no doubts but that, for the moment at least, he could dictate terms to the general or to anybody. \par
\tab The security guards made a way for him. He bathed and ate leisurely in enforced isolation, he himself being solely responsible for the enforcement. Then he called Ronson of Interplanetary and talked to him briefly. He waited for the return call before he felt he could relax thoroughly. It had all worked out so much better than he had expected. The very failure of the ship had conspired perfectly with him. \par
\tab Finally he called the general\rquote s office and ordered a conference. It was what it amounted to--orders. Major-general Kallner all but said, \ldblquote Yes, Sir.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab They were together again. Gerald Black, Kallner, Schloss--even Susan Calvin. But it was Black who was dominant now. The robopsychologist, graven-faced as ever, as unimpressed by triumph as by disaster, had nevertheless seemed by some subtle change of attitude to have relinquished the spotlight. \par
\tab Dr. Schloss nibbled a thumbnail and began by saying, cautiously, \ldblquote Dr. Black, we are all very grateful for your bravery and success.\rdblquote  Then, as though to institute a healthy deflation at once, he added, \ldblquote Still, smashing the relay box with your heel was imprudent and--well, it was an action that scarcely deserved success.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Black said, \ldblquote It was an action that could scarcely have avoided success. You see\rdblquote  (this was bomb number one) \ldblquote by that time I knew what had gone wrong.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Schloss rose to his feet. \ldblquote You did? Are you sure?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Go there yourself. It\rquote s safe now. I\rquote ll tell you what to look for.\rdblquote  Schloss sat down again, slowly. General Kallner was enthusiastic. \ldblquote Why, this is the best yet, if true.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s true,\rdblquote  said Black. His eyes slid to Susan Calvin, who said nothing. \par
\tab Black was enjoying the sensation of power. He released bomb number two by saying, \ldblquote It was the robot, of course. Did you hear that, Dr. Calvin?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Susan Calvin spoke for the first time. \ldblquote I hear it. I rather expected it, as a matter of fact. It was the only piece of equipment on board ship that had not been tested at Hyper Base.\rdblquote  \par
\tab For a moment Black felt dashed. He said, \ldblquote You said nothing of that.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Dr. Calvin said, \ldblquote As Dr. Schloss said several times, I am not an etherics expert. My guess, and it was no more than that, might easily have been wrong. I felt I had no right to prejudice you in advance of your mission.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Black said, \ldblquote All right, did you happen to guess \i how \i0 it went wrong?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No, sir.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why, it was made better than a man. That\rquote s what the trouble was. Isn\rquote t it strange that the trouble should rest with the very specialty of U. S. Robots? They make robots better than men, I understand.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He was slashing at her with words now but she did not rise to his bait. \par
\tab Instead, she sighed. \ldblquote My dear Dr. Black. I am not responsible for the slogans of our sales-promotion department.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Black felt dashed again. She wasn\rquote t an easy woman to handle, this Calvin. He said, \ldblquote Your people built a robot to replace a man at the controls of the \i Parsec. \i0 He had to pull the control bar toward himself, place it in position and let the heat of his hands twist the trigger to make final contact. Simple enough, Dr. Calvin?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Simple enough, Dr. Black.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote  And if the robot had been made no better than a man, he would have succeeded. Unfortunately, U. S. Robots felt compelled to make it better than a man. The robot was told to pull back the control bar firmly. \i Firmly. \i0 The word was repeated, strengthened, emphasized. So the robot did what it was told. It pulled it back firmly. There was only one trouble. He was easily ten times stronger than the ordinary human being for whom the control bar was designed.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote  Are you implying--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m \i saying \i0 the bar bent. It bent back just enough to misplace the trigger. When the heat of the robot\rquote s hand twisted the thermocouple\rquote  it did \i not \i0 make contact.\rdblquote  He grinned. \ldblquote This isn\rquote t the failure of just one robot, Dr. Calvin. It\rquote s symbolic of the failure of the robot idea.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Come now, Dr. Black,\rdblquote  said Susan Calvin icily, \ldblquote you\rquote re drowning logic in missionary psychology. The robot was equipped with adequate understanding as well as with brute force. Had the men who gave it its orders used quantitative terms rather than the foolish adverb \lquote firmly,\rquote  this would not have happened. Had they said, \lquote apply a pull of fifty-five pounds,\rquote  all would have been well.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What you are saying,\rdblquote  said Black, \ldblquote is that the inadequacy of a robot must be made up for by the ingenuity and intelligence of a man. I assure you that the people back on Earth will look at it in that way and will not be in the mood to excuse U. S. Robots for this fiasco.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Major-general Kallner said quickly, with a return of authority to his voice, \ldblquote Now wait, Black, all that has happened is obviously classified information.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote In fact,\rdblquote  said Schloss suddenly, \ldblquote your theory hasn\rquote t been checked yet. We\rquote ll send a party to the ship and find out. It may not be the robot at all.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote ll take care to make that discovery, will you? I wonder if the people will believe an interested party. Besides which, I have one more thing to tell you.\rdblquote  He readied bomb number three and said, \ldblquote As of this moment, I\rquote m resigning from this man\rquote s project. I\rquote m quitting.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Why?\rdblquote  asked Susan Calvin. \par
\tab\ldblquote Because, as you said, Dr. Calvin, I am a missionary,\rdblquote  said Black, smiling. \ldblquote I have a mission. I feel I owe it to the people of Earth to tell them that the age of the robots has reached the point where human life is valued less than robot life. It is now possible to order a man into danger because a robot is too precious to risk. I believe Earthmen should hear that. Many men have many reservations about robots as is. U. S. Robots has not yet succeeded in making it legally permissible to use robots on the planet Earth itself. I believe what I have to say, Dr. Calvin, will complete the matter. For this day\rquote s work, Dr. Calvin, you and your company and your robots will be wiped off the face of the solar system.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He was forewarning her, Black knew; he was forearming her, but he could not forego this scene. He had lived for this very moment ever since he had first left for the \i Parsec, \i0 and he could not give it up. \par
\tab He all but gloated at the momentary glitter in Susan Calvin\rquote s pale eyes and at the faintest flush in her cheeks. He thought, How do you feel now, madam scientist? \par
\tab Kallner said, \ldblquote You will not be permitted to resign, Black, nor will you be permitted--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote How can you stop me, general? I\rquote m a hero, haven\rquote t you heard? And old Mother Earth \i will \i0 make much of its heroes. It always has. They\rquote ll want to hear from me and they\rquote ll believe anything I say. And they won\rquote t like it if I\rquote m interfered with, at least not while I\rquote m a fresh, brand-new hero. I\rquote ve already talked to Ronson of Interplanetary Press and told him I had something big for them, something that would rock every government official and science director right out of the chair plush, so Interplanetary will be first in line, waiting to hear from me. So what can you do except to have me shot? And I think you\rquote d be worse off after that if you tried it.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Black\rquote s revenge was complete. He had spared no word. He had hampered himself not in the least. He rose to go. \par
\par
\tab\ldblquote One moment, Dr. Black,\rdblquote  said Susan Calvin. Her low voice carried authority. \par
\tab Black turned involuntarily, like a schoolboy at his teacher\rquote s voice, but he counteracted that gesture by a deliberately mocking, \ldblquote You have an explanation to make, I suppose?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Not at all,\rdblquote  she said primly. \ldblquote You have explained for me, and quite well. I chose you because I knew you would understand, though I thought you would understand sooner. I had had contact with you before. I knew you disliked robots and would, therefore, be under no illusions concerning them. From your records, which I asked to see before you were given your assignment, I saw that you had expressed disapproval of this robot-through-hyperspace experiment. Your superiors held that against you, but I thought it a point in your favor.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What are you talking about, doctor, if you\rquote ll excuse my rudeness?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The fact that you should have understood why no robot could have been sent on this mission. What was it you yourself said? Something about a robot\rquote s inadequacies having to be balanced by the ingenuity and intelligence of a man. Exactly so, young man, exactly so. Robots have no ingenuity. Their minds are finite and can be calculated to the last decimal. That, in fact, is my job. \par
\tab\ldblquote Now if a robot is given an order, a \i precise \i0 order, he can follow it. If the order is not precise, he cannot correct his own mistake without further orders. Isn\rquote t that what you reported concerning the robot on the ship? How then can we send a robot to find a flaw in a mechanism when we cannot possibly give precise orders, since we know nothing about the flaw ourselves? \lquote Find out what\rquote s wrong\rquote  is not an order you can give to a robot; only to a man. The human brain, so far at least, is beyond calculation.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Black sat down abruptly and stared at the psychologist in dismay. Her words struck sharply on a substratum of understanding that had been larded over with emotion. He found himself unable to refute her. Worse than that, a feeling of defeat encompassed him. \par
\tab He said, \ldblquote You might have said this before I left.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I might have,\rdblquote  agreed Dr. Calvin, \ldblquote but I noticed your very natural fear for your sanity. Such an overwhelming concern would easily have hampered your efficiency as an investigator, and it occurred to me to let you think that my only motive in sending you was that I valued a robot more. That, I thought, would make you angry, and anger, my dear Dr. Black, is sometimes a very useful emotion. At least, an angry man is never quite as afraid as he would be otherwise. It worked out nicely, I think.\rdblquote  She folded her hands loosely in her lap and came as near a smile as she ever had in her life. \par
\tab Black said, \ldblquote I\rquote ll be damned.\rdblquote  Susan Calvin said, \ldblquote So now, if you\rquote ll take my advice, return to your job, accept your status as hero, and tell your reporter friend the details of your brave deed. Let that be the big news you promised him.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Slowly, reluctantly, Black nodded. \par
\tab Schloss looked relieved; Kallner burst into a toothy smile. They held out hands, not having said a word in all the time that Susan Calvin had spoken, and not saying a word now. \par
\tab Black took their hands and shook them with some reserve. He said, \ldblquote It\rquote s your part that should be publicized, Dr. Calvin.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Susan Calvin said icily, \ldblquote Don\rquote t be a fool, young man. This is my job.\rdblquote\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Escape!\par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\scaps When Susan Calvin returned from hyper base\scaps0 , Alfred Tanning was waiting for her. The old man never spoke about his age, but everyone knew it to be over seventy-five. Yet his mind was keen, and if he had finally allowed himself to be made Director-Emeritus of Research with Bogert as acting Director, it did not prevent him from appearing in his office daily.\par
\tab\ldblquote How close are they to the Hyperatomic Drive?\rdblquote  he asked.\par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t know,\rdblquote  she replied irritably, \ldblquote I didn\rquote t ask.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Hmm. I wish they\rquote d hurry. Because if they don\rquote t, Consolidated might beat them to it, and beat \i us\i0  to it as well.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote\i Consolidated\i0 . What have they got to do with it?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, we\rquote re not the only ones with calculating machines. Ours may be positronic, but that doesn\rquote t mean they\rquote re better. Robertson is calling a big meeting about it tomorrow. He\rquote s been waiting for you to come back.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Robertson of U. S. Robot & Mechanical Men Corporation, son of the founder, pointed his lean nose at his general manager and his Adam\rquote s apple jumped as he said, \ldblquote You start now. Let\rquote s get this straight.\rdblquote\par
\tab The general manager did so with alacrity, \ldblquote Here\rquote s the deal now, chief. Consolidated Robots approached us a month ago with a funny sort of proposition. They brought about five tons of figures, equations, all that sort of stuff. It was a problem, see, and they wanted an answer from The Brain. The terms were as follows-\rdblquote\par
\tab He ticked them off on thick fingers: \ldblquote A hundred thousand for us if there is no solution and we can tell them the missing factors. Two hundred thousand if there is a solution, plus costs of construction of the machine involved, plus quarter interest in all profits derived therefrom. The problem concerns the development of an interstellar engine-\rdblquote\par
\tab Robertson frowned and his lean figure stiffened, \ldblquote Despite the fact that they have a thinking machine of their own. Right?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Exactly what makes the whole proposition a foul ball, chief? Levver, take it from there.\rdblquote\par
\tab Abe Levver looked up from the far end of the conference table and smoothed his stubbled chin with a faint rasping sound. He smiled:\par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s this way, sir. Consolidated \i had\i0  a thinking machine. It\rquote s broken.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What?\rdblquote  Robertson half rose.\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s right. Broken! It\rquote s \i kaput\i0 . Nobody knows why, but I got hold of some pretty interesting guesses -- like, for instance, that they asked it to give them an interstellar engine with the same set of information they came to us with, and that it cracked their machine wide open. It\rquote s scrap -- just scrap now.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You get it, chief?\rdblquote  The general manager was wildly jubilant. \ldblquote You get it? There isn\rquote t any industrial research group of any size that isn\rquote t trying to develop a space-warp engine, and Consolidated and U. S. Robots have the lead on the field with our super robot-brains. Now that they\rquote ve managed to foul theirs up, we have a clear field. That\rquote s the nub, the... uh... motivation. It will take them six years at least to build another and they\rquote re sunk, unless they can break ours, too, with the same problem.\rdblquote\par
\tab The president of U. S. Robots bulged his eyes, \ldblquote Why, the dirty rats-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Hold on, chief. There\rquote s more to this.\rdblquote  He pointed a finger with a wide sweep, \ldblquote Lanning, take it!\rdblquote\par
\tab Dr. Alfred Lanning viewed the proceedings with faint scorn -- his usual reaction to the doings of the vastly better-paid business and sales divisions. His unbelievable gray eyebrows hunched low and his voice was dry:\par
\tab\ldblquote From a scientific standpoint the situation, while not entirely clear, is subject to intelligent analysis. The question of interstellar travel under present conditions of physical theory is... uh... vague. The matter is wide open -- and the information given by Consolidated to its thinking machine, assuming these we have to be the same, was similarly wide open. Our mathematical department has given it a thorough analysis, and it seems Consolidated has included everything. Its material for submission contains all known developments of Franciacci\rquote s space-warp theory, and, apparently, all pertinent astrophysical and electronic data. It\rquote s quite a mouthful.\rdblquote\par
\tab Robertson followed anxiously. He interrupted, \ldblquote Too much for The Brain to handle?\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning shook his head decisively, \ldblquote No. There are no known limits to The Brain\rquote s capacity. It\rquote s a different matter. It\rquote s a question of the Robotic Laws. The Brain, for instance, could never supply a solution to a problem set to it if that solution, would involve the death or injury of humans. As far as it would be concerned, a problem with only such a solution would be insoluble. If such a problem is combined with an extremely urgent demand that it be answered, it is just possible that The Brain, only a robot after all, would be presented with a dilemma, where it could neither answer nor refuse to answer. Something of the sort must have happened to Consolidated\rquote s machine.\rdblquote\par
\tab He paused, but the general manager urged on, \ldblquote Go ahead, Dr. Tanning. Explain it the way you explained it to me.\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning set his lips and raised his eyebrows in the direction of Dr. Susan Calvin who lifted her eyes from her precisely folded hands for the first time. Her voice was low and colorless.\par
\tab\ldblquote The nature of a robot reaction to a dilemma is startling,\rdblquote  she began. \ldblquote Robot psychology is far from perfect -- as a specialist, I can assure you of that but it can be discussed in qualitative terms, because with all the complications introduced into a robot\rquote s positronic brain, it is built by humans and is therefore built according to human values.\par
\tab\ldblquote Now a human caught in an impossibility often responds by a retreat from reality: by entry into a world of delusion, or by taking to drink, going off into hysteria, or jumping off a bridge. It all comes to the same thing -- a refusal or inability to face the situation squarely. And so, the robot, a dilemma at its mildest will disorder half its relays; and at its worst it will burn out every positronic brain path past repair.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I see,\rdblquote  said Robertson, who didn\rquote t. \ldblquote Now what about this information Consolidated\rquote s wishing on us?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It undoubtedly involves,\rdblquote  said Dr. Calvin, \ldblquote a problem of a forbidden sort. But The Brain is considerably different from Consolidated\rquote s robot.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s right, chief. That\rquote s right.\rdblquote  The general manager was energetically interruptive. \ldblquote I want you to get this, because it\rquote s the whole point of the situation.\rdblquote\par
\tab Susan Calvin\rquote s eyes glittered behind the spectacles, and she continued patiently, \ldblquote You see, sir, Consolidated\rquote s machines, their Super-Thinker among them, are built without personality. They go in for functionalism, you know -- they have to, without U. S. Robot\rquote s basic patents for the emotional brain paths. Their Thinker is merely a calculating machine on a grand scale, and a dilemma ruins it instantly.\par
\tab\ldblquote However, The Brain, our own machine, has a personality -- a child\rquote s personality. It is a supremely deductive brain, but it resembles an \i idiot savant\i0 . It doesn\rquote t really understand what it does -- it just does it. And because it is really a child, it is more resilient. Life isn\rquote t so serious, you might say.\rdblquote\par
\tab The robopsychologist continued: \ldblquote Here is what we\rquote re going to do. We have divided all of Consolidated\rquote s information into logical units. We are going to feed the units to The Brain singly and cautiously. When \i the\i0  factor enters -- the one that creates the dilemma -- The Brain\rquote s child personality will hesitate. Its sense of judgment is not mature. There will be a perceptible interval before it will recognize a dilemma as such. And in that interval, it will reject the unit automatically -- before its brainpaths can be set in motion and ruined.\rdblquote\par
\tab Robertson\rquote s Adam\rquote s apple squirmed, \ldblquote Are you sure, now?\rdblquote\par
\tab Dr. Calvin masked impatience, \ldblquote It doesn\rquote t make much sense, I admit, in lay language; but there is no conceivable use in presenting the mathematics of this. I assure you, it is as I say.\rdblquote\par
\tab The general manager was in the breach instantly and fluently, \ldblquote So here\rquote s the situation, chief. If we take the deal, we can put it through like this. The Brain will tell us which unit of information involves the dilemma. From there, we can figure \i why\i0  the dilemma. Isn\rquote t that right, Dr. Bogert? There you are, chief, and Dr. Bogert is the best mathematician you\rquote ll find anywhere. We give Consolidated a \lquote No Solution\rquote  answer, with the reason, and collect a hundred thousand. They\rquote re left with a broken machine; we\rquote re left with a whole one. In a year, two maybe, we\rquote ll have a space-warp engine or a hyper-atomic motor some people call it. Whatever you name it, it will be the biggest thing in the world.\rdblquote\par
\tab Robertson chuckled and reached out, \ldblquote Let\rquote s see the contract. I\rquote ll sign it.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab When Susan Calvin entered the fantastically guarded vault that held The Brain, one of the current shift of technicians had just asked it: \ldblquote If one and a half chickens lay one and a half eggs in one and a half days, how many eggs will nine chickens lay in nine days?\rdblquote\par
\tab The Brain had just answered, \ldblquote Fifty-four.\rdblquote\par
\tab And the technician had just said to another, \ldblquote See, you dope!\rdblquote\par
\tab Dr. Calvin coughed and there was a sudden impossible flurry of directionless energy. The psychologist motioned briefly, and she was alone with The Brain.\par
\tab The Brain was a two-foot globe merely -- one which contained within it a thoroughly conditioned helium atmosphere, a volume of space completely vibration-absent and radiation-free -- and within that was that unheard-of complexity of positronic brain-paths that was The Brain. The rest of the room was crowded with the attachments that were the intermediaries between The Brain and the outside world -- its voice, its arms, its sense organs.\par
\tab Dr. Calvin said softly, \ldblquote How are you, Brain?\rdblquote\par
\tab The Brain\rquote s voice was high-pitched and enthusiastic, \ldblquote Swell, Miss Susan. You\rquote re going to ask me something. I can tell. You always have a book in your hand when you\rquote re going to ask me something.\rdblquote\par
\tab Dr. Calvin smiled mildly, \ldblquote Well, you\rquote re right, but not just yet. This is going to be a question. It will be so complicated we\rquote re going to give it to you in writing. But not just yet; I think I\rquote ll talk to you first.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote All right. I don\rquote t mind talking.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Now, Brain, in a little while, Dr. Lanning and Dr. Bogert will be here with this complicated question. We\rquote ll give it to you a very little at a time and very slowly, because we want you to be careful. We\rquote re going to ask you to build something, if you can, out of the information, but I\rquote m going to warn you now that the solution might involve... uh... damage to human beings.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Gosh!\rdblquote  The exclamation was hushed, drawn-out.\par
\tab\ldblquote Now you watch for that. When we come to a sheet which means damage, even maybe death, don\rquote t get excited. You see, Brain, in this case, we don\rquote t mind -- not even about death; we don\rquote t mind at all. So when you come to that sheet, just stop, give it back -- and that\rquote ll be all. You understand?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, sure. By golly, the death of humans! Oh, my!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Now, Brain, I hear Dr. Lanning and Dr. Bogert coming. They\rquote ll tell you what the problem is all about and then we\rquote ll start. Be a good boy, now-\rdblquote\par
\tab Slowly the sheets were fed in. After each one came the interval of the queerly whispery chuckling noise that was The Brain in action. Then the silence that meant readiness for another sheet. It was a matter of hours -- during which the equivalent of something like seventeen fat volumes of mathematical physics were fed into The Brain.\par
\tab As the process went on, frowns appeared and deepened. Lanning muttered ferociously under his breath. Bogert first gazed speculatively at his fingernails, and then bit at them in abstracted fashion. It was when the last of the thick pile of sheets disappeared that Calvin, white-faced, said:\par
\tab\ldblquote Something\rquote s wrong.\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning barely got the words out, \ldblquote It can\rquote t be. Is it -- dead?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Brain?\rdblquote  Susan Calvin was trembling. \ldblquote Do you hear me, Brain?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Huh?\rdblquote  came the abstracted rejoinder. \ldblquote Do you want me?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The solution-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, that! I can do it. I\rquote ll build you a whole ship, just as easy -- if you let me have the robots. A nice ship, it\rquote ll take two months maybe.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote There was -- no difficulty?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It took long to figure,\rdblquote  said The Brain.\par
\tab Dr. Calvin backed away. The color had not returned to her thin cheeks. She motioned the others away.\par
\par
\tab In her office, she said, \ldblquote I can\rquote t understand it. The information, as given, must involve a dilemma -- probably involves death. If something has gone wrong-\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert said quietly, \ldblquote The machine talks and makes sense. It can\rquote t be a dilemma.\rdblquote\par
\tab But the psychologist replied urgently, \ldblquote There are dilemmas \i and\i0  dilemmas. There are different forms of escape. Suppose The Brain is only mildly caught; just badly enough, say, to be suffering from the delusion that he can solve the problem, when he can\rquote t. Or suppose it\rquote s teetering on the brink of something really bad, so that any small push shoves it over.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Suppose,\rdblquote  said Lanning, \ldblquote there is no dilemma. Suppose Consolidated\rquote s machine broke down over a different question, or broke down for purely mechanical reasons.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But even so,\rdblquote  insisted Calvin, \ldblquote we couldn\rquote t take chances. Listen, from now on, no one is to as much as breathe to The Brain. I\rquote m taking over.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote All right,\rdblquote  sighed Lanning, \ldblquote take over, then. And meanwhile we\rquote ll let The Brain build its ship. And if it \i does\i0  build it, we\rquote ll have to test it.\rdblquote\par
\tab He was ruminating, \ldblquote We\rquote ll need our top field men for \i that\i0 .\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Michael Donovan brushed down his red hair with a violent motion of his hand and a total indifference to the fact that the unruly mass sprang to attention again immediately.\par
\tab He said, \ldblquote Call the turn now, Greg. They say the ship is finished. They don\rquote t know what it is, but it\rquote s finished. Let\rquote s go, Greg. Let\rquote s grab the controls right now.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell said wearily, \ldblquote Cut it, Mike. There\rquote s a peculiar overripe flavor to your humor at its freshest, and the confined atmosphere here isn\rquote t helping it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, listen,\rdblquote  Donovan took another ineffectual swipe at his hair, \ldblquote I\rquote m not worried so much about our cast-iron genius and his tin ship. There\rquote s the matter of my lost leave. And the monotony! There\rquote s nothing here but whiskers and figures -- the wrong kind of figures. Oh, why do they \i give\i0  us these jobs?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Because,\rdblquote  replied Powell, gently, \ldblquote we\rquote re no loss, if they lose us. O.K., relax! -- Doc Lanning\rquote s coming this way.\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning was coming, his gray eyebrows as lavish as ever, his aged figure unbent as yet and full of life. He walked silently up the ramp with the two men and out into the open field, where, obeying no human master, silent robots were building a ship.\par
\tab Wrong tense. \i Had\i0  built a ship!\par
\tab For Lanning said, \ldblquote The robots have stopped. Not one has moved today.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s completed then? Definitely?\rdblquote  asked Powell.\par
\tab\ldblquote Now how can I tell?\rdblquote  Lanning was peevish, and his eyebrows curled down in an eye-hiding frown. \ldblquote It \i seems\i0  done. There are no spare pieces about, and the interior is down to a gleaming finish.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote ve been inside?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Just in, then out. I\rquote m no space-pilot. Either of you two know much about engine theory?\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan looked at Powell, who looked at Donovan.\par
\tab Donovan said, \ldblquote I\rquote ve got my license, sir, but at last reading it didn\rquote t say anything about hyper-engines or warp-navigation. Just the usual child\rquote s play in three dimensions.\rdblquote\par
\tab Alfred Lanning looked up with sharp disapproval and snorted the length of his prominent nose.\par
\tab He said frigidly, \ldblquote Well, we have our engine men.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell caught at his elbow as he walked away, \ldblquote Sir, is the ship still restricted ground?\rdblquote\par
\tab The old director hesitated, then rubbed the bridge of his nose, \ldblquote I suppose not. For you two anyway.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan looked after him as he left and muttered a short, expressive phrase at his back. He turned to Powell, \ldblquote I\rquote d like to give him a literary description of himself, Greg.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Suppose you come along, Mike.\rdblquote\par
\tab The inside of the ship was finished, as finished as a ship ever was; that could be told in a single eye-blinking glance. No martinet in the system could have put as much spit-and-polish into a surface as those robots had. The walls were of a gleaming silvery finish that retained no fingerprints.\par
\tab There were no angles; walls, floors, and ceiling faded gently into each other and in the cold, metallic glittering of the hidden lights, one was surrounded by six chilly reflections of one\rquote s bewildered self.\par
\tab The main corridor was a narrow tunnel that led in a hard, clatter-footed stretch along a line of rooms of no interdistinguishing features.\par
\tab Powell said, \ldblquote I suppose furniture is built into the wall. Or maybe we\rquote re not supposed to sit or sleep.\rdblquote\par
\tab It was in the last room, the one nearest the nose, that the monotony broke. A curving window of non-reflecting glass was the first break in the universal metal, and below it was a single large dial, with a single motionless needle hard against the zero mark.\par
\tab Donovan said, \ldblquote Look at that!\rdblquote  and pointed to the single word on the finely-marked scale.\par
\tab It said, \ldblquote Parsecs\rdblquote  and the tiny figure at the right end of the curving, graduated meter said \ldblquote 1,000,000.\rdblquote\par
\tab There were two chairs; heavy, wide-flaring, uncushioned. Powell seated himself gingerly, and found it molded to the body\rquote s curves, and comfortable.\par
\tab Powell said, \ldblquote What do you think of it?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote For my money, The Brain has brain-fever. Let\rquote s get out.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Sure you don\rquote t want to look it over a bit?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I have looked it over. I came, I saw, I\rquote m through!\rdblquote  Donovan\rquote s red hair bristled into separate wires, \ldblquote Greg, let\rquote s get out of here. I quit my job five seconds ago, and this is a restricted area for non-personnel.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell smiled in an oily self-satisfied manner and smoothed his mustache, \ldblquote O.K., Mike, turn off that adrenalin tap you\rquote ve got draining into your bloodstream. I was worried, too, but no more.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No more, huh? How come, no more? Increased your insurance?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Mike, this ship can\rquote t fly.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote How do you know?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, we\rquote ve been through the entire ship, haven\rquote t we?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Seems so.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Take my word for it, we have. Did you see any pilot room except for this one port and the one gauge here in parsecs? Did you see any controls?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And did you see any engines?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Holy Joe, no!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, then! Let\rquote s break the news to Lanning, Mike.\rdblquote\par
\tab They cursed their way through the featureless corridors and finally hit-and-missed their way into the short passage to the air lock.\par
\tab Donovan stiffened, \ldblquote Did you lock this thing, Greg?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, I never touched it. Yank the lever, will you?\rdblquote\par
\tab The lever never budged, though Donovan\rquote s face twisted appallingly with exertion.\par
\tab Powell said, \ldblquote I didn\rquote t see any emergency exits. If something\rquote s gone wrong here, they\rquote ll have to melt us out.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, and we\rquote ve got to wait until they find out that some fool has locked us in here,\rdblquote  added Donovan, frantically.\par
\tab\ldblquote Let\rquote s get back to the room with the port. It\rquote s the only place from which we might attract attention.\rdblquote\par
\tab But they didn\rquote t.\par
\tab In that last room, the port was no longer blue and full of sky. It was black, and hard yellow pin-point stars spelled \i space\i0 .\par
\tab There was a dull, double thud, as two bodies collapsed separately into two chairs.\par
\par
\tab Alfred Lanning met Dr. Calvin just outside his office. He lit a nervous cigar and motioned her in.\par
\tab He said, \ldblquote Well, Susan, we\rquote ve come pretty far, and Robertson\rquote s getting jumpy. What are you doing with The Brain?\rdblquote\par
\tab Susan Calvin spread her hands, \ldblquote It\rquote s no use getting impatient. The Brain is worth more than anything we forfeit on this deal.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But you\rquote ve been questioning it for two months.\rdblquote\par
\tab The psychologist\rquote s voice was flat, but somehow dangerous, \ldblquote You would rather run this yourself?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Now you know what I meant.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, I suppose I do,\rdblquote  Dr. Calvin rubbed her hands nervously. \ldblquote It isn\rquote t easy. I\rquote ve been pampering it and probing it gently, and I haven\rquote t gotten anywhere yet. Its\rquote  reactions aren\rquote t normal. Its answers -- they\rquote re queer, somehow. But nothing I can put my finger on yet. And you see, until we know what\rquote s wrong, we must just tiptoe our way through. I can never tell what simple question or remark will just... push him over... and then -- Well, and then we\rquote ll have on our hands a completely useless Brain. Do you want to face that?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, it can\rquote t break the First Law.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I would have thought so, but-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote re not even sure of that?\rdblquote  Lanning was profoundly shocked.\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, I can\rquote t be sure of anything, Alfred-\rdblquote\par
\tab The alarm system raised its fearful clangor with a horrifying suddenness. Lanning clicked on communications with an almost paralytic spasm. The breathless words froze him.\par
\tab He said, \ldblquote Susan... you heard that... the ship\rquote s gone. I sent those two field men inside half an hour ago. You\rquote ll have to see The Brain again.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Susan Calvin said with enforced calm, \ldblquote Brain, what happened to the ship?\rdblquote\par
\tab The Brain said happily, \ldblquote The ship I built, Miss Susan?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s right. What has happened to it?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why, nothing at all. The two men that were supposed to test it were inside, and we were all set. So I sent it off.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh -- Well, that\rquote s nice.\rdblquote  The psychologist felt some difficulty in breathing. \ldblquote Do you think they\rquote ll be all right?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Right as anything, Miss Susan. I\rquote ve taken care of it all. It\rquote s a bee-yootiful ship.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, Brain, it \i is\i0  beautiful, but you think they have enough food, don\rquote t you? They\rquote ll be comfortable?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Plenty of food.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote This business might be a shock to them, Brain. Unexpected, you know.\rdblquote\par
\tab The Brain tossed it off, \ldblquote They\rquote ll be all right. It ought to be interesting for them.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Interesting? How?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Just interesting,\rdblquote  said The Brain, slyly.\par
\tab\ldblquote Susan,\rdblquote  whispered Lanning in a fuming whisper, \ldblquote ask him if death comes into it. Ask him what the dangers are.\rdblquote\par
\tab Susan Calvin\rquote s expression contorted with fury, \ldblquote Keep quiet!\rdblquote  In a shaken voice, she said to The Brain, \ldblquote We can communicate with the ship, can\rquote t we Brain?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, they can hear you if you call by radio. I\rquote ve taken care of that.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Thanks. That\rquote s all for now.\rdblquote\par
\tab Once outside, Lanning lashed out ragingly, \ldblquote Great Galaxy, Susan, if this gets out, it will ruin all of us. We\rquote ve got to get those men back. Why didn\rquote t you ask it if there was danger of death -- straight out?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Because,\rdblquote  said Calvin, with a weary frustration, \ldblquote that\rquote s just what I can\rquote t mention. If it\rquote s got a case of dilemma, it\rquote s about death. Anything that would bring it up badly might knock it completely out. Will we be better off then? Now, look, it said we could communicate with them. Let\rquote s do so, get their location, and bring them back. They probably can\rquote t use the controls themselves; The Brain is probably handling them remotely. Come!\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab It was quite a while before Powell shook himself together.\par
\tab\ldblquote Mike,\rdblquote  he said, out of cold lips, \ldblquote did you feel an acceleration?\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan\rquote s eyes were blank, \ldblquote Huh? No... no.\rdblquote\par
\tab And then the redhead\rquote s fists clenched and he was out of his seat with sudden frenzied energy and up against the cold, wide-curving glass. There was nothing to see -- but stars.\par
\tab He turned, \ldblquote Greg, they must have started the machine while we were inside. Greg, it\rquote s a put-up job; they fixed it up with the robot to jerry us into being the try-out boys, in case we were thinking of backing out.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell said, \ldblquote What are you talking about? What\rquote s the good of sending us out if we don\rquote t know how to run the machine? How are we supposed to bring it back? No, this ship left by itself, and without any apparent acceleration.\rdblquote  He rose, and walked the floor slowly. The metal walls dinned back the clangor of his steps.\par
\tab He said tonelessly, \ldblquote Mike, this is the most confusing situation we\rquote ve ever been up against.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That,\rdblquote  said Donovan, bitterly, \ldblquote is news to me. I was just beginning to have a very swell time, when you told me.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell ignored that. \ldblquote No acceleration -- which means the ship works on a principle different from any known.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Different from any we know, anyway.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Different from \i any\i0  known. There are no engines within reach of manual control. Maybe they\rquote re built into the walls. Maybe that\rquote s why they\rquote re thick as they are.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What are you mumbling about?\rdblquote  demanded Donovan.\par
\tab\ldblquote Why not listen? I\rquote m saying that whatever powers this ship is enclosed, and evidently not meant to be handled. The ship is running by remote control.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The Brain\rquote s control?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why not?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then you think we\rquote ll stay out here till The Brain brings us back.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It could be. If so, let\rquote s wait quietly. The Brain is a robot. It\rquote s got to follow the First Law. It can\rquote t hurt a human being.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan sat down slowly, \ldblquote You figure that?\rdblquote  Carefully, he flattened his hair, \ldblquote Listen, this junk about the space-warp knocked out Consolidated\rquote s robot, and the longhairs said it was because interstellar travel killed humans. Which robot are you going to trust? Ours had the same data, I understand.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell was yanking madly at his mustache, \ldblquote Don\rquote t pretend you don\rquote t know your robotics, Mike. Before it\rquote s physically possible in any way for a robot to even make a start to breaking the First Law, so many things have to break down that it would be a ruined mess of scrap ten times over. There\rquote s some simple explanation to this.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh sure, sure. Just have the butler call me in the morning. It\rquote s all just too, too simple for me to bother about before my beauty nap.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, Jupiter, Mike, what are you complaining about so far? The Brain is taking care of us. This place is warm. It\rquote s got light. It\rquote s got air. There wasn\rquote t even enough of an acceleration jar to muss your hair if it were smooth enough to be mussable in the first place.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yeah? Greg, you must\rquote ve taken lessons. No one could put Pollyanna that far out of the running without. What do we eat? What do we drink? Where are we? How do we get back? And in case of accident, to what exit and in what spacesuit do we run, not walk? I haven\rquote t even seen a bathroom in the place, or those little conveniences that go along with bathrooms. Sure, we\rquote re being taken care of -- but good?\rdblquote\par
\tab The voice that interrupted Donovan\rquote s tirade was not Powell\rquote s. It was nobody\rquote s. It was there, hanging in open air -- stentorian and petrifying in its effects.\par
\tab\ldblquote GREGORY POWELL! MICHAEL DONOVAN! GREGORY POWELL! MICHAEL DONOVAN! PLEASE REPORT YOUR PRESENT POSITIONS. IF YOUR SHIP ANSWERS CONTROLS, PLEASE RETURN TO BASE. GREGORY POWELL! MICHAEL DONOVAN! -\rdblquote\par
\tab The message was repetitious, mechanical, broken by regular, untiring intervals.\par
\tab Donovan said, \ldblquote Where\rquote s it coming from?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t know.\rdblquote  Powell\rquote s voice was an intense whisper, \ldblquote Where do the lights come from? Where does anything come from?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, how are we going to answer?\rdblquote  They had to speak in the intervals between the loudly echoing, repeating message.\par
\tab The walls were bare -- as bare and as unbroken as smooth, curving metal can be. Powell said, \ldblquote Shout an answer.\rdblquote\par
\tab They did. They shouted, in turns, and together, \ldblquote Position unknown! Ship out of control! Condition desperate!\rdblquote\par
\tab Their voices rose and cracked. The short businesslike sentences became interlarded and adulterated with screaming and emphatic profanity, but the cold, calling voice repeated and repeated and repeated unwearyingly.\par
\tab\ldblquote They don\rquote t hear us,\rdblquote  gasped Donovan. \ldblquote There\rquote s no sending mechanism. Just a receiver.\rdblquote  His eyes focused blindly at a random spot on the wall.\par
\tab Slowly the din of the outside voice softened and receded. They called again when it was a whisper, and they called again, hoarsely, when there was silence.\par
\tab Something like fifteen minutes later, Powell said lifelessly, \ldblquote Let\rquote s go through the ship again. There must be something to eat somewheres.\rdblquote  He did not sound hopeful. It was almost an admission of defeat.\par
\tab They divided in the corridor to the right and left. They could follow one another by the hard footsteps resounding, and they met occasionally in the corridor, where they would glare at each other and pass on.\par
\tab Powell\rquote s search ended suddenly and as it did, he heard Donovan\rquote s glad voice rise boomingly.\par
\tab\ldblquote Hey, Greg,\rdblquote  it howled, \ldblquote The ship \i has\i0  got plumbing. How did we miss it?\rdblquote\par
\tab It was some five minutes later that he found Powell by hit-and-miss. He was saying, \ldblquote Still no shower baths, though,\rdblquote  but it got choked off in the middle.\par
\tab\ldblquote Food,\rdblquote  he gasped.\par
\tab The wall had dropped away, leaving a curved gap with two shelves. The upper shelf was loaded with unlabeled cans of a bewildering variety of sizes and shapes. The enameled cans on the lower shelf were uniform and Donovan felt a cold draft about his ankles. The lower half was refrigerated.\par
\tab\ldblquote How... how-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It wasn\rquote t there, before,\rdblquote  said Powell, curtly. \ldblquote That wall section dropped out of sight as I came in the door.\rdblquote\par
\tab He was eating. The can was the preheating type with enclosed spoon and the warm odor of baked beans filled the room. \ldblquote Grab a can, Mike!\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan hesitated, \ldblquote What\rquote s the menu?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote How do I know! Are you finicky?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, but all I eat on ships are beans. Something else would be first choice.\rdblquote  His hand hovered and selected a shining elliptical can whose flatness seemed reminiscent of salmon or similar delicacy. It opened at the proper pressure.\par
\tab\ldblquote Beans!\rdblquote  howled Donovan, and reached for another. Powell hauled at the slack of his pants. \ldblquote Better eat that, sonny boy. Supplies are limited and we may be here a long, long time.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan drew back sulkily, \ldblquote Is that all we have? Beans?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Could be.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What\rquote s on the lower shelf?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Milk.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Just milk?\rdblquote  Donovan cried in outrage.\par
\tab\ldblquote Looks it.\rdblquote\par
\tab The meal of beans and milk was carried through in silence, and as they left, the strip of hidden wall rose up and formed an unbroken surface once more.\par
\tab Powell sighed, \ldblquote Everything automatic. Everything just so. Never felt so helpless in my life. Where\rquote s your plumbing?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Right there. And that wasn\rquote t among those present when we first looked, either.\rdblquote\par
\tab Fifteen minutes later they were back in the glassed-in room, staring at each other from opposing seats.\par
\tab Powell looked gloomily at the one gauge in the room. It still said \ldblquote parsecs,\rdblquote  the figures still ended in \ldblquote 1,000,000\rdblquote  and the indicating needle was still pressed hard against the zero mark.\par
\par
\tab In the innermost offices of the U. S. Robot & Mechanical Men Corp. Alfred Lanning was saying wearily, \ldblquote They won\rquote t answer. We\rquote ve tried every wavelength, public, private, coded, straight, even this subether stuff they have now. And The Brain still won\rquote t say anything?\rdblquote  He shot this at Dr. Calvin.\par
\tab\ldblquote It won\rquote t amplify on the matter, Alfred,\rdblquote  she said, emphatically. \ldblquote It says they can hear us... and when I try to press it, it becomes... well, it becomes sullen. And it\rquote s not supposed to -- whoever heard of a sullen robot?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Suppose you tell us what you have, Susan,\rdblquote  said Bogert.\par
\tab\ldblquote Here it is! It admits it controls the ship itself entirely. It is definitely optimistic about their safety, but without details. I don\rquote t dare press it. However, the center of disturbance seems to be about the interstellar jump itself. The Brain definitely laughed when I brought up the subject. There are other indications, but that is the closest it\rquote s come to an open abnormality.\rdblquote\par
\tab She looked at the others, \ldblquote I refer to hysteria. I dropped the subject immediately, and I hope I did no harm, but it gave me a lead. I can handle hysteria. Give me twelve hours! If I can bring it back to normal, it will bring back the ship.\rdblquote\par
\tab Bogert seemed suddenly stricken. \ldblquote The interstellar jump!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What\rquote s the matter?\rdblquote  The cry was double from Calvin and Lanning.\par
\tab\ldblquote The figures for the engine The Brain gave us. Say... I just thought of something.\rdblquote\par
\tab He left hurriedly.\par
\tab Lanning gazed after him. He said brusquely to Calvin, \ldblquote You take care of your end, Susan.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Two hours later, Bogert was talking eagerly, \ldblquote I tell you, Lanning, that\rquote s it. The interstellar jump is not instantaneous not as long as the speed of light is finite. Life can\rquote t exist... \i matter and energy \i0 as such can\rquote t exist in the space warp. I don\rquote t know what it would be like -- but that\rquote s it. That\rquote s what killed Consolidated\rquote s robot.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Donovan felt as haggard as he looked. \ldblquote Only five days?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Only five days. I\rquote m sure of it.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan looked about him wretchedly. The stars through the glass were familiar but infinitely indifferent. The walls were cold to the touch; the lights, which had recently flared up again, were unfeelingly bright; the needle on the gauge pointed stubbornly to zero; and Donovan could not get rid of the taste of beans.\par
\tab He said, morosely, \ldblquote I need a bath.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell looked up briefly, and said, \ldblquote So do I. You needn\rquote t feel self-conscious. But unless you want to bathe in milk and do without drinking\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We\rquote ll do without drinking eventually, anyway. Greg, where does this interstellar travel come in?\rquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You tell me. Maybe we just keep on going. We\rquote d get there, eventually. At least the dust of our skeletons would -- but isn\rquote t our death the whole point of The Brain\rquote s original breakdown?\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan spoke with his back to the other, \ldblquote Greg, I\rquote ve been thinking. It\rquote s pretty bad. There\rquote s not much to do -- except walk around or talk to yourself. You know those stories about guys marooned in space. They go nuts long before they starve. I don\rquote t know, Greg, but ever since the lights went on, I feel funny.\rdblquote\par
\tab There was a silence, then Powell\rquote s voice came thin and small, \ldblquote So do I. What\rquote s it like?\rdblquote\par
\tab The redheaded figure turned, \ldblquote Feel funny inside. There\rquote s a pounding in me with everything tense. It\rquote s hard to breathe. I can\rquote t stand still.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Um-m-m. Do you feel vibration?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote How do you mean?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Sit down for a minute and listen. You don\rquote t hear it, but you feel it -- as if something\rquote s throbbing somewheres and it\rquote s throbbing the whole ship, and you, too, along with it. Listen-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yeah . . . yeah. What do you think it is, Greg? You don\rquote t suppose it\rquote s us?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It might be.\rdblquote  Powell stroked his mustache slowly. \ldblquote But it might be the ship\rquote s engines. It might be getting ready.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote For what?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote For the interstellar jump. It may be coming and the devil knows what it\rquote s like.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan pondered. Then he said, savagely, \ldblquote If it does, let it. But I wish we could fight. It\rquote s humiliating to have to wait for it.\rdblquote\par
\tab An hour later, perhaps, Powell looked at his hand on the metal chair-arm and said with frozen calm, \ldblquote Feel the wall, Mike.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan did, and said, \ldblquote You can feel it shake, Greg.\rdblquote\par
\tab Even the stars seemed blurred. From somewhere came the vague impression of a huge machine gathering power with the walls, storing up energy for a mighty leap, throbbing its way up the scales of strength.\par
\tab It came with a suddenness and a stab of pain. Powell stiffened, and half-jerked from his chair. His sight caught Donovan and blanked out while Donovan\rquote s thin shout whimpered and died in his ears. Something writhed within him and struggled against a growing blanket of ice, that thickened.\par
\tab Something broke loose and whirled in a blaze of flickering light and pain. It fell -- and whirled and fell headlong into silence!\par
\tab It was death!\par
\tab It was a world of no motion and no sensation. A world of dim, unsensing consciousness; a consciousness of darkness and of silence and of formless struggle.\par
\tab Most of all a consciousness of eternity.\par
\tab He was a tiny white thread of ego -- cold and afraid.\par
\tab Then the words came, unctuous and sonorous, thundering over him in a foam of sound:\par
\tab\ldblquote Does your coffin fit differently lately? Why not try Morbid M. Cadaver\rquote s extensible caskets? They are scientifically designed to fit the natural curves of the body, and are enriched with Vitamin B1. Use Cadaver\rquote s caskets for comfort. Remember - you\rquote re - going - to - be - dead - a - long - long - time!\rdblquote\par
\tab It wasn\rquote t quite sound, but whatever it was, it died away in an oily rumbling whisper.\par
\tab The white thread that might have been Powell heaved uselessly at the insubstantial eons of time that existed all about him -- and collapsed upon itself as the piercing shriek of a hundred million ghosts of a hundred million soprano voices rose to a crescendo of melody:\par
\par
\i\f3\tab\f0\ldblquote I\rquote ll be glad when you\rquote re dead, you rascal, you.\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ll be glad when you\rquote re dead, you rascal, you.\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ll be glad-\rdblquote\par
\i0\f3\par
\tab\f0 It rose up a spiral stairway of violent sound into the keening supersonics that passed hearing, and then beyond-\par
\par
\tab The white thread quivered with a pulsating pang. It strained quietly-\par
\tab The voices were ordinary -- and many. It was a crowd speaking; a swirling mob that swept through and past and over him with a rapid, headlong motion, that left drifting tatters of words behind them.\par
\tab\ldblquote What did they getcha for, boy? Y\rquote look banged up-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote --A hot fire, I guess, but I got a case-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote --I\rquote ve made Paradise, but old St. Pete-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Naaah, I got a pull with the boy. Had dealings with him-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Hey, Sam, come this way-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Ja get a mouthpiece? Beelzebub says-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote --Going on, my good imp? My appointment is with Sa-\rdblquote\par
\tab And above it all the original stentorian roar, that plunged across all:\par
\tab\ldblquote HURRY! HURRY! HURRY!!! Stir your bones, and don\rquote t keep us waiting -- there are many more in line. Have your certificates ready, and make sure Peter\rquote s release is stamped across it. See if you are at the proper entrance gate. There will be plenty of fire for all. Hey, you -- YOU DOWN THERE. TAKE YOUR PLACE IN LINE OR-\rdblquote\par
\tab The white thread that was Powell groveled backward before the advancing shout, and felt the sharp stab of the pointing finger. It all exploded into a rainbow of sound that dripped its fragments onto an aching brain.\par
\tab Powell was in the chair, again. He felt himself shaking.\par
\tab Donovan\rquote s eyes were opening into two large popping bowls of glazed blue.\par
\tab\ldblquote Greg,\rdblquote  he whispered in what was almost a sob. \ldblquote Were you dead?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I... felt dead.\rdblquote  He did not recognize his own croak.\par
\tab Donovan was obviously making a bad failure of his attempt to stand up, \ldblquote Are we alive now? Or is there more?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I... feel alive.\rdblquote  It was the same hoarseness. Powell said cautiously, \ldblquote Did you... hear anything, when... when you were dead?\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan paused, and then very slowly nodded his head, \ldblquote Did you?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes. Did you hear about coffins... and females singing... and the lines forming to get into Hell? Did you?\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan shook his head, \ldblquote Just one voice.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Loud?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No. Soft, but rough like a file over the fingertips. It was a sermon, you know. About hell-fire. He described the tortures of... well, \i you know\i0 . I once heard a sermon like that -- almost.\rdblquote\par
\tab He was perspiring.\par
\par
\tab They were conscious of sunlight through the port. It was weak, but it was blue-white -- and the gleaming pea that was the distant source of light was not Old Sol.\par
\tab And Powell pointed a trembling finger at the single gauge. The needle stood stiff and proud at the hairline whose figure read 300,000 parsecs.\par
\tab Powell said, \ldblquote Mike if it\rquote s true, we must be out of the Galaxy altogether.\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan said, \ldblquote Blazed Greg! We\rquote d be the first men out of the Solar System.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes! That\rquote s just it. We\rquote ve escaped the sun. We\rquote ve escaped the Galaxy. Mike, this ship is the answer. It means freedom for all humanity -- freedom to spread through to every star that exists -- millions and billions and trillions of them.\rdblquote\par
\tab And then he came down with a hard thud, \ldblquote But how do we get back, Mike?\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan smiled shakily, \ldblquote Oh, that\rquote s all right. The ship brought us here. The ship will take us back. Me for more beans.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But Mike... hold on, Mike. If it takes us back the way it brought us here-\rdblquote\par
\tab Donovan stopped halfway up and sat back heavily into the chair.\par
\tab Powell went on, \ldblquote We\rquote ll have to... die again, Mike\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  sighed Donovan, \ldblquote if we have to, we have to. At least it isn\rquote t permanent, not \i very\i0  permanent.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Susan Calvin was speaking slowly now. For six hours she had been slowly prodding The Brain -- for six fruitless hours. She was weary of repetitions, weary of circumlocutions, weary of everything.\par
\tab\ldblquote Now, Brain, there\rquote s just one more thing. You must make a special effort to answer simply. Have you been entirely clear about the interstellar jump? I mean does it take them very far?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote As far as they want to go, Miss Susan. Golly, it isn\rquote t any trick through the warp.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And on the other side, what will they see?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Stars and stuff. What do you suppose?\rdblquote\par
\tab The next question slipped out, \ldblquote They\rquote ll be alive, then?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Sure!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And the interstellar jump won\rquote t hurt them?\rdblquote\par
\tab She froze as The Brain maintained silence. That was it! She had touched the sore spot.\par
\tab\ldblquote Brain,\rdblquote  she supplicated faintly, \ldblquote Brain, do you hear me?\rdblquote\par
\tab The answer was weak, quivering. The Brain said, \ldblquote Do I have to answer? About the jump, I mean?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Not if you don\rquote t want to. But it would be interesting -- I mean if you wanted to.\rdblquote  Susan Calvin tried to be bright about it.\par
\tab\ldblquote Aw-w-w. You spoil everything.\rdblquote\par
\tab And the psychologist jumped up suddenly, with a look of flaming insight on her face.\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, my,\rdblquote  she gasped. \ldblquote Oh, my.\rdblquote\par
\tab And she felt the tension of hours and days released in a burst. It was later that she told Lanning, \ldblquote I tell you it\rquote s all right. No, you must leave me alone, now. The ship will be back safely, \i with\i0  the men, and I want to rest. I \i will\i0  rest. Now go away.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab The ship returned to Earth as silently, as unjarringly as it had left. It dropped precisely into place and the main lock gaped open. The two men who walked out felt their way carefully and scratched their rough and scrubbily-stubbled chins.\par
\tab And then, slowly and purposefully, the one with red hair knelt down and planted upon the concrete of the runway a firm, loud kiss.\par
\tab They waved aside the crowd that was gathering and made gestures of denial at the eager couple that had piled out of the down-swooping ambulance with a stretcher between them.\par
\tab Gregory Powell said, \ldblquote Where\rquote s the nearest shower?\rdblquote\par
\tab They were led away.\par
\tab They were gathered, all of them, about a table. It was a full staff meeting of the brains of U. S. Robot & Mechanical Men Corp.\par
\par
\tab Slowly and climactically, Powell and Donovan finished a graphic and resounding story.\par
\tab Susan Calvin broke the silence that followed. In the few days that had elapsed she had recovered her icy, somewhat acid, calm -- but still a trace of embarrassment broke through.\par
\tab\ldblquote Strictly speaking,\rdblquote  she said, \ldblquote this was my fault -- all of it. When we first presented this problem to The Brain, as I hope some of you remember, I went to great lengths to impress upon it the importance of rejecting any item of information capable of creating a dilemma. In doing so I said something like \lquote Don\rquote t get excited about the death of humans. We don\rquote t mind it at all. Just give the sheet back and forget it.\rquote\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Hm-m-m,\rdblquote  said Lanning. \ldblquote What follows?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The obvious. When that item entered its calculations which yielded the equation controlling the length of minimum interval for the interstellar jump -- it meant death for humans. That\rquote s where Consolidated\rquote s machine broke down completely. But I had depressed the importance of death to The Brain -- not entirely, for the First Law can never be broken -- but just sufficiently so that The Brain could take a second look at the equation. Sufficiently to give it time to realize that after the interval was passed through, the men would return to life -- just as the matter and energy of the ship itself would return to being. This so-called \lquote death,\rquote  in other words, was a strictly temporary phenomenon. You see?\rdblquote\par
\tab She looked about her. They were all listening.\par
\tab She went on, \ldblquote So he accepted the item, but not without a certain jar. Even with death temporary and its importance depressed, it was enough to unbalance him very gently.\rdblquote\par
\tab She brought it out calmly, \ldblquote He developed a sense of humor -- it\rquote s an escape, you see, a method of partial escape from reality. He became a practical joker.\rdblquote\par
\tab Powell and Donovan were on their feet.\par
\tab\ldblquote What?\rdblquote  cried Powell?\par
\tab Donovan was considerably more colorful about it.\par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s so,\rdblquote  said Calvin. \ldblquote He took care of you, and kept you safe, but you couldn\rquote t handle any controls, because they weren\rquote t for you -- just for the humorous Brain. We could reach you by radio, but you couldn\rquote t answer. You had plenty of food, but all of it beans and milk. Then you died, so to speak, and were reborn, but the period of your death was made... well... interesting. I wish I knew how he did it. It was The Brain\rquote s prize joke, but he meant no harm.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No harm!\rdblquote  gasped Donovan. \ldblquote Oh, if that cute little tyke only had a neck.\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning raised a quieting hand, \ldblquote All right, it\rquote s been a mess, but it\rquote s all over. What now?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  said Bogert, quietly, \ldblquote obviously it\rquote s up to us to improve the space-warp engine. There must be some way of getting around that interval of jump. If there is, we\rquote re the only organization left with a grand-scale super-robot, so we\rquote re bound to find it if anyone can. And then -- U. S. Robots has interstellar travel, and humanity has the opportunity for galactic empire.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What about Consolidated?\rdblquote  said Lanning?\par
\tab\ldblquote Hey,\rdblquote  interrupted Donovan suddenly, \ldblquote I want to make a suggestion there. They landed U. S. Robots into quite a mess. It wasn\rquote t as bad a mess as they expected and it turned out well, but their intentions weren\rquote t pious. And Greg and I bore the most of it.\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, they wanted an answer, and they\rquote ve got one. Send them that ship, guaranteed, and U. S. Robots can collect their two hundred thou plus construction costs. And if they test it -- then suppose we let The Brain have just a little more fun before it\rquote s brought back to normal.\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning said gravely, \ldblquote It sounds just and proper to me.\rdblquote\par
\tab To which Bogert added absently, \ldblquote Strictly according to contract, too.\rdblquote\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Evidence\par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
Francis Quinn was a politician of the new school. That, of course, is a meaningless expression, as are all expressions of the sort. Most of the \ldblquote new schools\rdblquote  we have were duplicated in the social life of ancient Greece, and perhaps, if we knew more about it, in the social life of ancient Sumeria and in the lake dwellings of prehistoric Switzerland as well.\par
\tab But, to get out from under what promises to be a dull and complicated beginning, it might be best to state hastily that Quinn neither ran for office nor canvassed for votes, made no speeches and stuffed no ballot boxes. Any more than Napoleon pulled a trigger at Austerlitz.\par
\tab And since politics makes strange bedfellows, Alfred Lanning sat at the other side of the desk with his ferocious white eyebrows bent far forward over eyes in which chronic impatience had sharpened to acuity. He was not pleased.\par
\tab The fact, if known to Quinn, would have annoyed him not the least. His voice was friendly, perhaps professionally so.\par
\tab\ldblquote I assume you know Stephen Byerley, Dr. Lanning.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I have heard of him. So have many people.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, so have I. Perhaps you intend voting for him at the next election.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I couldn\rquote t say.\rdblquote  There was an unmistakable trace of acidity here. \ldblquote I have not followed the political currents, so I\rquote m not aware that he is running for office.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote He may be our next mayor. Of course, he is only a lawyer now, but great oaks-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  interrupted Lanning, \ldblquote I have heard the phrase before. But I wonder if we can get to the business at hand.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We \i are\i0  at the business at hand, Dr. Lanning.\rdblquote  Quinn\rquote s tone was very gentle, \ldblquote It is to my interest to keep Mr. Byerley a district attorney at the very most, and it is to your interest to help me do so.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote To \i my\i0  interest? Come!\rdblquote  Lanning\rquote s eyebrows hunched low.\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, say then to the interest of the U. S. Robot & Mechanical Men Corporation. I come to you as Director Emeritus of Research, because I know that your connection to them is that of, shall we say, \lquote elder statesman.\rquote  You are listened to with respect and yet your connection with them is no longer so tight but that you cannot possess considerable freedom of action; even if the action is somewhat unorthodox.\rdblquote\par
\tab Dr. Lanning was silent a moment, chewing the cud of his thoughts. He said more softly, \ldblquote I don\rquote t follow you at all, Mr. Quinn.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I am not surprised, Dr. Lanning. But it\rquote s all rather simple. Do you mind?\rdblquote  Quinn lit a slender cigarette with a lighter of tasteful simplicity and his big-boned face settled into an expression of quiet amusement. \ldblquote We have spoken of Mr. Byerley -- a strange and colorful character. He was unknown three years ago. He is very well known now. He is a man of force and ability, and certainly the most capable and intelligent prosecutor I have ever known. Unfortunately he is not a friend of mine\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I understand,\rdblquote  said Lanning, mechanically. He stared at his fingernails.\par
\tab\ldblquote I have had occasion,\rdblquote  continued Quinn, evenly, \ldblquote in the past year to investigate Mr. Byerley -- quite exhaustively. It is always useful, you see, to subject the past life of reform politicians to rather inquisitive research. If you knew how often it helped-\rdblquote  He paused to smile humorlessly at the glowing tip of his cigarette. \ldblquote But Mr. Byerley\rquote s past is unremarkable. A quiet life in a small town, a college education, a wife who died young, an auto accident with a slow recovery, law school, coming to the metropolis, an attorney.\rdblquote\par
\tab Francis Quinn shook his head slowly, then added, \ldblquote But his present life. Ah, that is remarkable. Our district attorney never eats!\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning\rquote s head snapped up, old eyes surprisingly sharp, \ldblquote Pardon me?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Our district attorney never eats.\rdblquote  The repetition thumped by syllables. \ldblquote I\rquote ll modify that slightly. He has never been seen to eat or drink. Never! Do you understand the significance of the word? Not rarely, but never!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I find that quite incredible. Can you trust your investigators?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I can trust my investigators, and I don\rquote t find it incredible at all. Further, our district attorney has never been seen to drink -- in the aqueous sense as well as the alcoholic -- nor to sleep. There are other factors, but I should think I have made my point.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Lanning leaned back in his seat, and there was the rapt silence of challenge and response between them, and then the old roboticist shook his head. \ldblquote No. There is only one thing you can be trying to imply, if I couple your statements with the fact that you present them to me, and that is impossible.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But the man is quite inhuman, Dr. Lanning.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote If you told me he were Satan in masquerade, there would be a faint chance that I might believe you.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I tell you he is a robot, Dr. Lanning.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I tell you it is as impossible a conception as I have ever heard, Mr. Quinn.\rdblquote\par
\tab Again the combative silence.\par
\tab\ldblquote Nevertheless,\rdblquote  and Quinn stubbed out his cigarette with elaborate care, \ldblquote you will have to investigate this impossibility with all the resources of the Corporation.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m sure that I could undertake no such thing, Mr. Quinn. You don\rquote t seriously suggest that the Corporation take part in local politics.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You have no choice. Supposing I were to make my facts public without proof. The evidence is circumstantial enough.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Suit yourself in that respect.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But it would not suit me. Proof would be much preferable. And it would not suit \i you\i0 , for the publicity would be very damaging to your company. You are perfectly well acquainted, I suppose, with the strict rules against the use of robots on inhabited worlds.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Certainly!\rdblquote  -- brusquely.\par
\tab\ldblquote You know that the U. S. Robot & Mechanical Men Corporation is the only manufacturer of positronic robots in the Solar System, and if Byerley is a robot, he is a \i positronic\i0  robot. You are also aware that all positronic robots are leased, and not sold; that the Corporation remains the owner and manager of each robot, and is therefore responsible for the actions of all.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It is an easy matter, Mr. Quinn, to prove the Corporation has never manufactured a robot of a humanoid character.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It can be done? To discuss merely possibilities.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes. It can be done.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Secretly, I imagine, as well. Without entering it in your books.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Not the positronic brain, sir. Too many factors are involved in that, and there is the tightest possible government supervision.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, but robots are worn out, break down, go out of order -- and are dismantled.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And the positronic brains re-used or destroyed.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Really?\rdblquote  Francis Quinn allowed himself a trace of sarcasm. \ldblquote And if one were, accidentally, of course, not destroyed -- and there happened to be a humanoid structure waiting for a brain.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Impossible!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You would have to prove that to the government and the public, so why not prove it to me now.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But what could our purpose be?\rdblquote  demanded Lanning in exasperation. \ldblquote Where is our motivation? Credit us with a minimum of sense.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote My dear sir, please. The Corporation would be only too glad to have the various Regions permit the use of humanoid positronic robots on inhabited worlds. The profits would be enormous. But the prejudice of the public against such a practice is too great. Suppose you get them used to such robots first -- see, we have a skillful lawyer, a good mayor, and he is a robot. Won\rquote t you buy our robot butlers?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Thoroughly fantastic. An almost humorous descent to the ridiculous.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I imagine so. Why not prove it? Or would you still rather try to prove it to the public?\rdblquote\par
\tab The light in the office was dimming, but it was not yet too dim to obscure the flush of frustration on Alfred Lanning\rquote s face. Slowly, the roboticist\rquote s finger touched a knob and the wall illuminators glowed to gentle life.\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, then,\rdblquote  he growled, \ldblquote let us see.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab The face of Stephen Byerley is not an easy one to describe. He was forty by birth certificate and forty by appearance -- but it was a healthy, well-nourished good-natured appearance of forty; one that automatically drew the teeth of the bromide about \ldblquote looking one\rquote s age.\rdblquote\par
\tab This was particularly true when he laughed, and he was laughing now. It came loudly and continuously, died away for a bit, then began again-\par
\tab And Alfred Lanning\rquote s face contracted into a rigidly bitter monument of disapproval. He made a half gesture to the woman who sat beside him, but her thin, bloodless lips merely pursed themselves a trifle.\par
\tab Byerley gasped himself a stage nearer normality.\par
\tab\ldblquote Really, Dr. Lanning... really -- I... \i I\i0 ... a robot?\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning bit his words off with a snap, \ldblquote It is no statement of mine, sir. I would be quite satisfied to have you a member of humanity. Since our corporation never manufactured you, I am quite certain that you are -- in a legalistic sense, at any rate. But since the contention that you are a robot has been advanced to us seriously by a man of certain standing-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Don\rquote t mention his name, if it would knock a chip off your granite block of ethics, but let\rquote s pretend it was Frank Quinn, for the sake of argument, and continue.\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning drew in a sharp, cutting snort at the interruption, and paused ferociously before continuing with added frigidity, \ldblquote -by a man of certain standing, with whose identity I am not interested in playing guessing games, I am bound to ask your cooperation in disproving it. The mere fact that such a contention could be advanced and publicized by the means at this man\rquote s disposal would be a bad blow to the company I represent -- even if the charge were never proven. You understand me?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, yes, your position is clear to me. The charge itself is ridiculous. The spot you find yourself in is not. I beg your pardon, if my laughter offended you. It was the first I laughed at, not the second. How can I help you?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It could be very simple. You have only to sit down to a meal at a restaurant in the presence of witnesses, have your picture taken, and eat.\rdblquote  Lanning sat back in his chair, the worst of the interview over. The woman beside him watched Byerley with an apparently absorbed expression but contributed nothing of her own.\par
\tab Stephen Byerley met her eyes for an instant, was caught by them, then turned back to the roboticist. For a while his fingers were thoughtful over the bronze paperweight that was the only ornament on his desk.\par
\tab He said quietly, \ldblquote I don\rquote t think I can oblige you.\rdblquote\par
\tab He raised his hand, \ldblquote Now wait, Dr. Lanning. I appreciate the fact that this whole matter is distasteful to you, that you have been forced into it against your will, that you feel you are playing an undignified and even ridiculous part. Still, the matter is even more intimately concerned with myself, so be tolerant.\par
\tab\ldblquote First, what makes you think that Quinn -- this man of certain standing, you know -- wasn\rquote t hoodwinking you, in order to get you to do exactly what you are doing?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why it seems scarcely likely that a reputable person would endanger himself in so ridiculous a fashion, if he weren\rquote t convinced he were on safe ground.\rdblquote\par
\tab There was little humor in Byerley\rquote s eyes, \ldblquote You don\rquote t know Quinn. He could manage to make safe ground out of a ledge a mountain sheep could not handle. I suppose he showed the particulars of the investigation he claims to have made of me?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Enough to convince me that it would be too troublesome to have our corporation attempt to disprove them when you could do so more easily.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then you believe him when he says I never eat. You are a scientist, Dr. Lanning. Think of the logic required. I have not been observed to eat, therefore, I never eat Q.E.D. After all!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You are using prosecution tactics to confuse what is really a very simple situation.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote On the contrary, I am trying to clarify what you and Quinn between you are making a very complicated one. You see, I don\rquote t sleep much, that\rquote s true, and I certainly don\rquote t sleep in public. I have never cared to eat with others -- an idiosyncrasy which is unusual and probably neurotic in character, but which harms no one. Look, Dr. Lanning, let me present you with a suppositious case. Supposing we had a politician who was interested in defeating a reform candidate at any cost and while investigating his private life came across oddities such as I have just mentioned.\par
\tab\ldblquote Suppose further that in order to smear the candidate effectively, he comes to your company as the ideal agent. Do you expect him to say to you, \lquote So-and-so is a robot because he hardly ever eats with people, and I have never seen him fall asleep in the middle of a case; and once when I peeped into his window in the middle of the night, there he was, sitting up with a book; and I looked in his frigidaire and there was no food in it.\rquote\par
\tab\ldblquote If he told you that, you would send for a straitjacket. But if he tells you, \lquote He \i never\i0  sleeps; he \i never\i0  eats,\rquote  then the shock of the statement blinds you to the fact that such statements are impossible to prove. You play into his hands by contributing to the to-do.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Regardless, sir,\rdblquote  began Lanning, with a threatening obstinacy, \ldblquote of whether you consider this matter serious or not, it will require only the meal I mentioned to end it.\rdblquote\par
\tab Again Byerley turned to the woman, who still regarded him expressionlessly. \ldblquote Pardon me. I\rquote ve caught your name correctly, haven\rquote t I? Dr. Susan Calvin?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, Mr. Byerley.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote re the U. S. Robot\rquote s psychologist, aren\rquote t you?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote\i Robo\i0 psychologist, please.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, are robots so different from men, mentally?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Worlds different.\rdblquote  She allowed herself a frosty smile, \ldblquote Robots are essentially decent.\rdblquote\par
\tab Humor tugged at the corners of the lawyer\rquote s mouth, \ldblquote Well, that\rquote s a hard blow. But what I wanted to say was this. Since you\rquote re a psycho -- a robopsychologist, \i and\i0  a woman, I\rquote ll bet that you\rquote ve done something that Dr. Lanning hasn\rquote t thought of.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And what is that?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote ve got something to eat in your purse.\rdblquote\par
\tab Something caught in the schooled indifference of Susan Calvin\rquote s eyes. She said, \ldblquote You surprise me, Mr. Byerley.\rdblquote\par
\tab And opening her purse, she produced an apple. Quietly, she handed it to him. Dr. Lanning, after an initial start, followed the slow movement from one hand to the other with sharply alert eyes.\par
\tab Calmly, Stephen Byerley bit into it, and calmly he swallowed it\par
\tab\ldblquote You see, Dr. Lanning?\rdblquote\par
\tab Dr. Lanning smiled in a relief tangible enough to make even his eyebrows appear benevolent A relief that survived for one fragile second.\par
\tab Susan Calvin said, \ldblquote I was curious to see if you would eat it, but, of course, in the present case, it proves nothing.\rdblquote\par
\tab Byerley grinned, \ldblquote It doesn\rquote t?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Of course not. It is obvious, Dr. Lanning, that if this man were a humanoid robot, he would be a perfect imitation. He is almost too human to be credible. After all, we have been seeing and observing human beings all our lives; it would be impossible to palm something merely nearly right off on us. It would have to be \i all\i0  right. Observe the texture of the skin, the quality of the irises, the bone formation of the hand. If he\rquote s a robot, I wish U. S. Robots \i had\i0  made him, because he\rquote s a good job. Do you suppose then, that anyone capable of paying attention to such niceties would neglect a few gadgets to take care of such things as eating, sleeping, elimination? For emergency use only, perhaps; as, for instance, to prevent such situations as are arising here. So a meal won\rquote t really prove anything.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Now wait,\rdblquote  snarled Lanning, \ldblquote I am -- not quite the fool both of you make me out to be. I am not interested in the problem of Mr. Byerley\rquote s humanity or nonhumanity. I am interest in getting the corporation out of a hole. A public meal will end the matter and keep it ended no matter what Quinn does. We can leave the finer details to lawyers and robopsychologists.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But, Dr. Lanning,\rdblquote  said Byerley, \ldblquote you forget the politics of the situation. I am as anxious to be elected, as Quinn is to stop me. By the way, did you notice that you used his name? It\rquote s a cheap shyster trick of mine; I knew you would, before you were through.\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning flushed, \ldblquote What has the election to do with it?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Publicity works both ways, sir. If Quinn wants to call me a robot, and has the nerve to do so, I have the nerve to play the game his way.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You mean you-\rdblquote  Lanning was quite frankly appalled.\par
\tab\ldblquote Exactly. I mean that I\rquote m going to let him go ahead, choose his rope, test its strength, cut off the right length, tie the noose, insert his head and grin. I can do what little else is required.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You are mighty confident.\rdblquote\par
\tab Susan Calvin rose to her feet, \ldblquote Come, Alfred, we won\rquote t change his mind for him.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You see.\rdblquote  Byerley smiled gently. \ldblquote You\rquote re a human psychologist, too.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab But perhaps not all the confidence that Dr. Lanning had remarked upon was present that evening when Byerley\rquote s car parked on the automatic treads leading to the sunken garage, and Byerley himself crossed the path to the front door of his house.\par
\tab The figure in the wheel chair looked up as he entered and smiled. Byerley\rquote s face lit with affection. He crossed over to it.\par
\tab The cripple\rquote s voice was a hoarse, grating whisper that came out of a mouth forever twisted to one side, leering out of a face that was half scar tissue, \ldblquote You\rquote re late, Steve.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I know, John, I know. But I\rquote ve been up against a peculiar and interesting trouble today.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote So?\rdblquote  Neither the torn face nor the destroyed voice could carry expression but there was anxiety in the clear eyes. \ldblquote Nothing you can\rquote t handle?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m not exactly certain. I may need your help. \i You\rquote re\i0  the brilliant one in the family. Do you want me to take you out into the garden? It\rquote s a beautiful evening.\rdblquote\par
\tab Two strong arms lifted John from the wheel chair. Gently, almost caressingly, Byerley\rquote s arms went around the shoulders and under the swathed legs of the cripple. Carefully, and slowly, he walked through the rooms, down the gentle ramp that had been built with a wheel chair in mind, and out the back door into the walled and wired garden behind the house.\par
\tab\ldblquote Why don\rquote t you let me use the wheel chair, Steve? This is Silly.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Because I\rquote d rather carry you. Do you object? You know that you\rquote re as glad to get out of that motorized buggy for a while, as I am to see you out. How do you feel today?\rdblquote  He deposited John with infinite care upon the cool grass.\par
\tab\ldblquote How should I feel? But tell me about your troubles.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Quinn\rquote s campaign will be based on the fact that he claims I\rquote m a robot.\rdblquote\par
\tab John\rquote s eyes opened wide, \ldblquote How do you know? It\rquote s impossible. I won\rquote t believe it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, come, I tell you it\rquote s so. He had one of the big-shot scientists of U. S. Robot & Mechanical Men Corporation over at the office to argue with me.\rdblquote\par
\tab Slowly John\rquote s hands tore at the grass, \ldblquote I see. I see.\rdblquote\par
\tab Byerley said, \ldblquote But we can let him choose his ground. I have an idea. Listen to me and tell me if we can do it--\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab The scene as it appeared in Alfred Lanning\rquote s office that night was a tableau of stares. Francis Quinn stared meditatively at Alfred Lanning. Lanning\rquote s stare was savagely set upon Susan Calvin, who stared impassively in her turn at Quinn.\par
\tab Francis Quinn broke it with a heavy attempt at lightness, \ldblquote Bluff. He\rquote s making it up as he goes along.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Are you going to gamble on that, Mr. Quinn?\rdblquote  asked Dr. Calvin, indifferently.\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, it\rquote s your gamble, really.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Look here,\rdblquote  Lanning covered definite pessimism with bluster, \ldblquote we\rquote ve done what you asked. We witnessed the man eat. It\rquote s ridiculous to presume him a robot.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Do \i you\i0  think so?\rdblquote  Quinn shot toward Calvin. \ldblquote Lanning said you were the expert.\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning was almost threatening, \ldblquote Now, Susan-\rdblquote\par
\tab Quinn interrupted smoothly, \ldblquote Why not let her talk, man? She\rquote s been sitting there imitating a gatepost for half an hour.\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning felt definitely harassed. From what he experienced then to incipient paranoia was but a step. He said, \ldblquote Very well. Have your say, Susan. We won\rquote t interrupt you.\rdblquote\par
\tab Susan Calvin glanced at him humorlessly, then fixed cold eyes on Mr. Quinn. \ldblquote There are only two ways of definitely proving Byerley to be a robot, sir. So far you are presenting circumstantial evidence, with which you can accuse, but not prove -- and I think Mr. Byerley is sufficiently clever to counter that sort of material. You probably think so yourself, or you wouldn\rquote t have come here.\par
\tab\ldblquote The two methods of \i proof\i0  are the physical and the psychological. Physically, you can dissect him or use an X-ray. How to do that would be \i your\i0  problem. Psychologically, his behavior can be studied, for if he \i is\i0  a positronic robot, he must conform to the three Rules of Robotics. A positronic brain cannot be constructed without them. You know the Rules, Mr. Quinn?\rdblquote\par
\tab She spoke them carefully, clearly, quoting word for word the famous bold print on page one of the \ldblquote Handbook of Robotics.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ve heard of them,\rdblquote  said Quinn, carelessly.\par
\tab\ldblquote Then the matter is easy to follow,\rdblquote  responded the psychologist, dryly. \ldblquote If Mr. Byerley breaks any of those three rules, he is not a robot. Unfortunately, this procedure works in only one direction. If he lives up to the rules, it proves nothing one way or the other.\rdblquote\par
\tab Quinn raised polite eyebrows, \ldblquote Why not, doctor?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Because, if you stop to think of it, the three Rules of Robotics are the essential guiding principles of a good many of the world\rquote s ethical systems. Of course, every human being is supposed to have the instinct of self-preservation. That\rquote s Rule Three to a robot. Also every \lquote good\rquote  human being, with a social conscience and a sense of responsibility, is supposed to defer to proper authority; to listen to his doctor, his boss, his government, his psychiatrist, his fellow man; to obey laws, to follow rules, to conform to custom -- even when they interfere with his comfort or his safety. That\rquote s Rule Two to a robot. Also, every \lquote good\rquote  human being is supposed to love others as himself, protect his fellow man, risk his life to save another. That\rquote s Rule One to a robot. To put it simply -- if Byerley follows all the Rules of Robotics, he may be a robot, and may simply be a very good man.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But,\rdblquote  said Quinn, \ldblquote you\rquote re telling me that you can never prove him a robot.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I may be able to prove him \i not\i0  a robot\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s not the proof I want.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote ll have such proof as exists. You are the only one responsible for your own wants.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Here Lanning\rquote s mind leaped suddenly to the sting of an idea, \ldblquote Has it occurred to anyone,\rdblquote  he ground out, \ldblquote that district attorney is a rather strange occupation for a robot? The prosecution of human beings -- sentencing them to death -- bringing about their infinite harm-\rdblquote\par
\tab Quinn grew suddenly keen, \ldblquote No, you can\rquote t get out of it that way. Being district attorney doesn\rquote t make him human. Don\rquote t you know his record? Don\rquote t you know that he boasts that he has never prosecuted an innocent man; that there are scores of people left untried because the evidence against them didn\rquote t satisfy him, even though he could probably have argued a jury into atomizing them? That happens to be so.\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning\rquote s thin cheeks quivered, \ldblquote No, Quinn, no. There is nothing in the Rules of Robotics that makes any allowance for human guilt. A robot may not judge whether a human being deserves death. It is not for him to decide. \i He may not harm a human\i0 --variety skunk, or variety angel.\rdblquote\par
\tab Susan Calvin sounded tired. \ldblquote Alfred,\rdblquote  she said, \ldblquote don\rquote t talk foolishly. What if a robot came upon a madman about to set fire to a house with people in it? He would stop the madman, wouldn\rquote t he?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Of course.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And if the only way he could stop him was to kill him-\rdblquote\par
\tab There was a faint sound in Lanning\rquote s throat. Nothing more.\par
\tab\ldblquote The answer to that, Alfred, is that he would do his best not to kill him. If the madman died, the robot would require psychotherapy because he might easily go mad at the conflict presented him --of having broken Rule One to adhere to Rule One in a higher sense. But a man would be dead and a robot would have killed him.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, \i is\i0  Byerley mad?\rdblquote  demanded Lanning; with all the sarcasm he could muster.\par
\tab\ldblquote No, but he has killed no man himself. He has exposed facts which might represent a particular human being to be dangerous to the large mass of other human beings we call society. He protects the greater number and thus adheres to Rule One at maximum potential. That is as far as he goes. It is the judge who then condemns the criminal to death or imprisonment, after the jury decides on his guilt or innocence. It is the jailer who imprisons him, the executioner who kills him. And Mr. Byerley has done nothing but determine truth and aid society.\par
\tab\ldblquote As a matter of fact, Mr. Quinn, I have looked into Mr. Byerley\rquote s career since you first brought this matter to our attention. I find that he has never demanded the death sentence in his closing speeches to the jury. I also find that he has spoken on behalf of the abolition of capital punishment and contributed generously to research institutions engaged in criminal neurophysiology. He apparently believes in the cure, rather than the punishment of crime. I find that significant.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You do?\rdblquote  Quinn smiled. \ldblquote Significant of a certain odor of roboticity, perhaps?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Perhaps. Why deny it? Actions such as his could come only from a robot, or from a very honorable and decent human being. But you see, you just can\rquote t differentiate between a robot and the very best of humans.\rdblquote\par
\tab Quinn sat back in his chair. His voice quivered with impatience. \ldblquote Dr. Lanning, it\rquote s perfectly possible to create a humanoid robot that would perfectly duplicate a human in appearance, isn\rquote t it?\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning harrumphed and considered, \ldblquote It\rquote s been done experimentally by U. S. Robots,\rdblquote  he said reluctantly, \ldblquote without the addition of a positronic brain, of course. By using human ova and hormone control, one can grow human flesh and skin over a skeleton of porous silicone plastics that would defy external examination. The eyes, the hair, the skin would be really human, not humanoid. And if you put a positronic brain, and such other gadgets as you might desire inside, you have a humanoid robot.\rdblquote\par
\tab Quinn said shortly, \ldblquote How long would it take to make one?\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning considered, \ldblquote If you had all your equipment -- the brain, the skeleton, the ovum, the proper hormones and radiations -- say, two months.\rdblquote\par
\tab The politician straightened out of his chair. \ldblquote Then we shall see what the insides of Mr. Byerley look like. It will mean publicity for U. S. Robots -- but I gave you your chance.\rdblquote\par
\tab Lanning turned impatiently to Susan Calvin, when they were alone. \ldblquote Why do you insist-\rdblquote ?\par
\tab And with real feeling, she responded sharply and instantly, \ldblquote Which do you want -- the truth or my resignation? I won\rquote t lie for you. U. S. Robots can take care of itself. Don\rquote t turn coward.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What,\rdblquote  said Lanning, \ldblquote if he opens up Byerley, and wheels and gears fall out what then?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote He won\rquote t open Byerley,\rdblquote  said Calvin, disdainfully. \ldblquote Byerley is as clever as Quinn, at the very least\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab The news broke upon the city a week before Byerley was to have been nominated. But \ldblquote broke\rdblquote  is the wrong word. It staggered upon the city, shambled, crawled. Laughter began, and wit was free. And as the far off hand of Quinn tightened its pressure in easy stages, the laughter grew forced, an element of hollow uncertainty entered, and people broke off to wonder.\par
\tab The convention itself had the sir of a restive stallion. There had been no contest planned. Only Byerley could possibly have been nominated a week earlier. There was no substitute even now. They had to nominate him, but there was complete confusion about it.\par
\tab It would not have been so bad if the average individual were not torn between the enormity of the charge, if true, and its sensational folly, if false.\par
\tab The day after Byerley was nominated perfunctorily, hollowly -- a newspaper finally published the gist of a long interview with Dr. Susan Calvin, \ldblquote world famous expert on robopsychology and positronics.\rdblquote\par
\tab What broke loose is popularly and succinctly described as hell.\par
\tab It was what the Fundamentalists were waiting for. They were not a political party; they made pretense to no formal religion. Essentially they were those who had not adapted themselves to what had once been called the Atomic Age, in the days when atoms were a novelty. Actually, they were the Simple-Lifers, hungering after a life, which to those who lived it had probably appeared not so Simple, and who had been, therefore, Simple-Lifers themselves.\par
\tab The Fundamentalists required no new reason to detest robots and robot manufacturers; but a new reason such as the Quinn accusation and the Calvin analysis was sufficient to make such detestation audible.\par
\tab The huge plants of the U. S. Robot & Mechanical Men Corporation was a hive that spawned armed guards. It prepared for war.\par
\tab Within the city the house of Stephen Byerley bristled with police.\par
\tab The political campaign, of course, lost all other issues, and resembled a campaign only in that it was something filling the hiatus between nomination and election.\par
\par
\tab Stephen Byerley did not allow the fussy little man to distract him. He remained comfortably unperturbed by the uniforms in the background. Outside the house, past the line of grim guards, reporters and photographers waited according to the tradition of the caste. One enterprising \lquote visor station even had a scanner focused on the blank entrance to the prosecutor\rquote s unpretentious home, while a synthetically excited announcer filled in with inflated commentary.\par
\tab The fussy little man advanced. He held forward a rich, complicated sheet. \ldblquote This, Mr. Byerley, is a court order authorizing me to search these premises for the presence of illegal... uh... mechanical men or robots of any description.\rdblquote\par
\tab Byerley half rose, and took the paper. He glanced at it indifferently, and smiled as he handed it back. \ldblquote All in order. Go ahead. Do your job. Mrs. Hoppen\rdblquote  -- to his housekeeper, who appeared reluctantly from the next room -\rdblquote  please go with them, and help out if you can.\rdblquote\par
\tab The little man, whose name was Harroway, hesitated, produced an unmistakable blush, failed completely to catch Byerley\rquote s eyes, and muttered, \ldblquote Come on,\rdblquote  to the two policemen.\par
\tab He was back in ten minutes.\par
\tab\ldblquote Through?\rdblquote  questioned Byerley, in just the tone of a person who is not particularly interested in the question, or its answer.\par
\tab Harroway cleared his throat, made a bad start in falsetto, and began again, angrily, \ldblquote Look here, Mr. Byerley, our special instructions were to search the house very thoroughly.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And haven\rquote t you?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We were told exactly what to look for.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote In short, Mr. Byerley, and not to put too fine a point on it, we were told to search you.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Me?\rdblquote  said the prosecutor with a broadening smile. \ldblquote And how do you intend to do that?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We have a Penet-radiation unit-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then I\rquote m to have my X-ray photograph taken, hey? You have the authority?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You saw my warrant.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote May I see it again?\rdblquote\par
\tab Harroway, his forehead shining with considerably more than mere enthusiasm, passed it over a second time.\par
\tab Byerley said evenly, \ldblquote I read here as the description of what you are to search; I quote: \lquote the dwelling place belonging to Stephen Allen Byerley, located at 355 Willow Grove, Evanstron, together, with any garage, storehouse or other structures or buildings thereto appertaining, together with all grounds thereto appertaining\rquote ... um... and so on. Quite in order. But, my good man, it doesn\rquote t say anything about searching my interior. I am not part of the premises. You may search my clothes if you think I\rquote ve got a robot hidden in my pocket.\rdblquote\par
\tab Harroway had no doubt on the point of to whom he owed his job. He did not propose to be backward, given a chance to earn a much better -- i.e., more highly paid -- job.\par
\tab He said, in a faint echo of bluster, \ldblquote Look here. I\rquote m allowed to search the furniture in your house, and anything else I find in it. You are in it, aren\rquote t you?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote A remarkable observation. I \i am\i0  in it. But I\rquote m not a piece of furniture. As a citizen of adult responsibility -- I have the psychiatric certificate proving that -- I have certain rights under the Regional Articles. Searching me would come under the heading of violating my Right of Privacy. That paper isn\rquote t sufficient.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Sure, but if you\rquote re a robot, you don\rquote t have Right of Privacy.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote True enough but that paper still isn\rquote t sufficient. It recognizes me implicitly as a human being.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Where?\rdblquote  Harroway snatched at it.\par
\tab\ldblquote Where it says \lquote the dwelling place belonging to\rquote  and so on. A robot cannot own property. And you may tell your employer, Mr. Harroway, that if he tries to issue a similar paper which does \i not\i0  implicitly recognize me as a human being, he will be immediately faced with a restraining injunction and a civil suit which will make it necessary for him to \i prove\i0  me a robot by means of information \i now\i0  in his possession, or else to pay a whopping penalty for an attempt to deprive me unduly of my Rights under the Regional Articles. You\rquote ll tell him that, won\rquote t you?\rdblquote\par
\tab Harroway marched to the door. He turned. . \ldblquote You\rquote re a slick lawyer-\rdblquote  His hand was in his pocket. For a short moment, he stood there. Then he left, smiled in the direction of the \lquote visor scanner, still playing away -- waved to the reporters, and shouted, \ldblquote We\rquote ll have something for you tomorrow, boys. No kidding.\rdblquote\par
\tab In his ground car, he settled back, removed the tiny mechanism from his pocket and carefully inspected it. It was the first time he had ever taken a photograph by X-ray reflection. He hoped he had done it correctly.\par
\tab Quinn and Byerley had never met face-to-face alone. But visorphone was pretty close to it. In fact, accepted literally, perhaps the phrase was accurate, even if to each, the other were merely the light and dark pattern of a bank of photocells.\par
\tab It was Quinn who had initiated the call. It was Quinn, who spoke first, and without particular ceremony, \ldblquote Thought you would like to know, Byerley, that I intend to make public the fact that you\rquote re wearing a protective shield against Penet-radiation.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That so? In that case, you\rquote ve probably already made it public. I have a notion our enterprising press representatives have been tapping my various communication lines for quite a while. I know they have my office lines full of holes; which is why I\rquote ve dug in at my home these last weeks.\rdblquote  Byerley was friendly, almost chatty.\par
\tab Quinn\rquote s lips tightened slightly, \ldblquote This call is shielded -- thoroughly. I\rquote m making it at a certain personal risk.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote So I should imagine. Nobody knows you\rquote re behind this campaign. At least, nobody knows it officially. Nobody doesn\rquote t know it unofficially. I wouldn\rquote t worry. So I wear a protective shield? I suppose you found that out when your puppy dog\rquote s Penet-radiation photograph, the other day, turned out to be overexposed.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You realize, Byerley, that it would be pretty obvious to everyone that you don\rquote t dare face X-ray analysis.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Also that you, or your men, attempted illegal invasion of my Rights of Privacy.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The devil they\rquote ll care for that.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote They might. It\rquote s rather symbolic of our two campaigns isn\rquote t it? You have little concern with the rights of the individual citizen. I have great concern. I will not submit to X-ray analysis, because I wish to maintain my Rights on principle. Just as I\rquote ll maintain the rights of others when elected.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That will, no doubt make a very interesting speech, but no one will believe you. A little too high-sounding to be true. Another thing,\rdblquote  a sudden, crisp change, \ldblquote the personnel in your home was not complete the other night.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote In what way?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote According to the report,\rdblquote  he shuffled papers before him that were just within the range of vision of the visiplate, \ldblquote there was one person missing -- a cripple.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote As you say,\rdblquote  said Byerley, tonelessly, \ldblquote a cripple. My old teacher, who lives with me and who is now in the country -- and has been for two months. A \lquote much-needed rest\rquote  is the usual expression applied in the case. He has your permission?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Your teacher? A scientist of sorts?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote A lawyer once -- before he was a cripple. He has a government license as a research biophysicist, with a laboratory of his own, and a complete description of the work he\rquote s doing filed with the proper authorities, to whom I can refer you. The work is minor, but is a harmless and engaging hobby for a -- poor cripple. I am being as helpful as I can, you see.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I see. And what does this... teacher... know about robot manufacture?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I couldn\rquote t judge the extent of his knowledge in a field with which I am unacquainted.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote He wouldn\rquote t have access to positronic brains?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Ask your friends at U. S. Robots. They\rquote d be the ones to know.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote ll put it shortly, Byerley. Your crippled teacher is the real Stephen Byerley. You are his robot creation. We can prove it. It was he who was in the automobile accident, not you. There will be ways of checking the records.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Really? Do so, then. My best wishes.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And we can search your so-called teacher\rquote s \lquote country place,\rquote  and see what we can find there.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, not quite, Quinn.\rdblquote  Byerley smiled broadly. \ldblquote Unfortunately for you, my so-called teacher is a sick man. His country place is his place of rest. His Right of Privacy as a citizen of adult responsibility is naturally even stronger, under the circumstances. You won\rquote t be able to obtain a warrant to enter his grounds without showing just cause. However, I\rquote d be the last to prevent you from trying.\rdblquote\par
\tab There was a pause of moderate length, and then Quinn leaned forward, so that his imaged-face expanded and the fine lines on his forehead were visible, \ldblquote Byerley, why do you carry on? You can\rquote t be elected.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Can\rquote t I?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Do you think you can? Do you suppose that your failure to make any attempt to disprove the robot charge -- when you could easily, by breaking one of the Three Laws -- does anything but convince the people that you \i are\i0  a robot?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote All I see so far is that from being a rather vaguely known, but still largely obscure metropolitan lawyer, I have now become a world figure. You\rquote re a good publicist.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But you \i are\i0  a robot.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote So it\rquote s been said, but not proven.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s been proven sufficiently for the electorate.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then relax you\rquote ve won.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Good-by,\rdblquote  said Quinn, with his first touch of viciousness, and the visorphone slammed off.\par
\tab\ldblquote Good-by,\rdblquote  said Byerley imperturbably, to the blank plate.\par
\par
\tab Byerley brought his \ldblquote teacher\rdblquote  back the week before election. The air car dropped quickly in an obscure part of the city.\par
\tab\ldblquote You\rquote ll stay here till after election,\rdblquote  Byerley told him. \ldblquote It would be better to have you out of the way if things take a bad turn.\rdblquote\par
\tab The hoarse voice that twisted painfully out of John\rquote s crooked mouth might have had accents of concern in it. \ldblquote There\rquote s danger of violence?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The Fundamentalists threaten it, so I suppose there is, in a theoretical sense. But I really don\rquote t expect it. The Fundies have no real power. They\rquote re just the continuous irritant factor that might stir up a riot after a while. You don\rquote t mind staying here? Please, I won\rquote t be myself if I have to worry about you.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, I\rquote ll stay. You still think it will go well?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m sure of it. No one bothered you at the place?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No one. I\rquote m certain.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And your part went well?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well enough. There\rquote ll be no trouble there.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then take care of yourself, and watch the televisor tomorrow, John.\rdblquote  Byerley pressed the gnarled hand that rested on his.\par
\par
\tab Lenton\rquote s forehead was a furrowed study in suspense. He had the completely unenviable job of being Byerley\rquote s campaign manager in a campaign that wasn\rquote t a campaign, for a person that refused to reveal his strategy, and refused to accept his manager\rquote s.\par
\tab\ldblquote You can\rquote t!\rdblquote  It was his favorite phrase. It had become his only phrase. \ldblquote I tell you, Steve, you can\rquote t!\rdblquote\par
\tab He threw himself in front of the prosecutor, who was spending his time leafing through the typed pages of his speech.\par
\tab\ldblquote Put that down, Steve. Look, that mob has been organized by the Fundies. You won\rquote t get a hearing. You\rquote ll be stoned more likely. Why do you have to make a speech before an audience? What\rquote s wrong with a recording, a visual recording?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You want me to win the election, don\rquote t you?\rdblquote  asked Byerley, mildly.\par
\tab\ldblquote Win the election! You\rquote re not going to win, Steve. I\rquote m trying to save your life.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, I\rquote m not in danger.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote He\rquote s not in danger. He\rquote s not in danger.\rdblquote  Lenton made a queer, rasping sound in his throat. \ldblquote You mean you\rquote re getting out on that balcony in front of fifty thousand crazy crackpots and try to talk sense to them -- on a balcony like a medieval dictator?\rdblquote\par
\tab Byerley consulted his watch. \ldblquote In about five minutes -- as soon as the televisor lines are free.\rdblquote\par
\tab Lenton\rquote s answering remark was not quite transliterable.\par
\par
\tab The crowd filled a roped off area of the city. Trees and houses seemed to grow out of a mass-human foundation. And by ultra-wave, the rest of the world watched. It was a purely local election, but it had a world audience just the same. Byerley thought of that and smiled.\par
\tab But there was nothing to smile at in the crowd itself. There were banners and streamers, ringing every possible change on his supposed roboticity. The hostile attitude rose thickly and tangibly into the atmosphere.\par
\tab From the start the speech was not successful. It competed against the inchoate mob howl and the rhythmic cries of the Fundie claques that formed mob-islands within the mob. Byerley spoke on, slowly, unemotionally-\par
\tab Inside, Lenton clutched his hair and groaned -- and waited for the blood.\par
\par
\tab There was a writhing in the front ranks. An angular citizen with popping eyes, and clothes too short for the lank length of his limbs, was pulling to the fore. A policeman dived after him, making slow, struggling passage. Byerley waved the latter off, angrily.\par
\tab The thin man was directly under the balcony. His words tore unheard against the roar.\par
\tab Byerley leaned forward. \ldblquote What do you say? If you have a legitimate question, I\rquote ll answer it.\rdblquote  He turned to a flanking guard. \ldblquote Bring that man up here.\rdblquote\par
\tab There was a tensing in the crowd. Cries of \ldblquote Quiet\rdblquote  started in various parts of the mob, and rose to a bedlam, then toned down raggedly. The thin man, red-faced and panting, faced Byerley.\par
\tab Byerley said, \ldblquote Have you a question?\rdblquote\par
\tab The thin man stared, and said in a cracked voice, \ldblquote Hit me!\rdblquote\par
\tab With sudden energy, he thrust out his chin at an angle. \ldblquote Hit me! You say you\rquote re not a robot. Prove it. You can\rquote t hit a human, you monster.\rdblquote\par
\tab There was a queer, flat, dead silence. Byerley\rquote s voice punctured it. \ldblquote I have no reason to hit you.\rdblquote\par
\tab The thin man was laughing wildly. \ldblquote You \i can\rquote t\i0  hit me. You \i won\rquote t\i0  hit me. You\rquote re not a human. You\rquote re a monster, a make-believe man.\rdblquote\par
\tab And Stephen Byerley, tight-lipped, in the face of thousands who watched in person and the millions, who watched by screen, drew back his fist and caught the man crackingly upon the chin. The challenger went over backwards in sudden collapse, with nothing on his face but blank, blank surprise.\par
\tab Byerley said, \ldblquote I\rquote m sorry. Take him in and see that he\rquote s comfortable. I want to speak to him when I\rquote m through.\rdblquote\par
\tab And when Dr. Calvin, from her reserved space, turned her automobile and drove off, only one reporter had recovered sufficiently from the shock to race after her, and shout an unheard question.\par
\tab Susan Calvin called over her shoulder, \ldblquote He\rquote s human.\rdblquote\par
\tab That was enough. The reporter raced away in his own direction.\par
\tab The rest of the speech might be described as \ldblquote Spoken but not heard.\rdblquote\par
\par
\tab Dr. Calvin and Stephen Byerley met once again -- a week before he took the oath of office as mayor. It was late -- past midnight.\par
\tab Dr. Calvin said, \ldblquote You don\rquote t look tired.\rdblquote\par
\tab The mayor-elect smiled. \ldblquote I may stay up for a while. Don\rquote t tell Quinn.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I shan\rquote t. But that was an interesting story of Quinn\rquote s, since you mention him. It\rquote s a shame to have spoiled it. I suppose you knew his theory?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Parts of it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It was highly dramatic. Stephen Byerley was a young lawyer, a powerful speaker, a great idealist -- and with a certain flare for biophysics. Are you interested in robotics, Mr. Byerley?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Only in the legal aspects.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote\i This\i0  Stephen Byerley was. But there was an accident. Byerley\rquote s wife died, he himself, worse. His legs were gone; his face was gone; his voice was gone. Part of his mind was bent. He would not submit to plastic surgery. He retired from the world, legal career gone -- only his intelligence, and his hands left. Somehow he could obtain positronic brains, even a complex one, one which had the greatest capacity of forming judgments in ethical problems -- which is the highest robotic function so far developed.\par
\tab\ldblquote He grew a body about it. Trained it to be everything he would have been and was no longer. He sent it out into the world as Stephen Byerley, remaining behind himself as the old, crippled teacher that no one ever saw-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Unfortunately,\rdblquote  said the mayor-elect, \ldblquote I ruined all that by hitting a man. The papers say it was your official verdict on the occasion that I was human.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote How did that happen? Do you mind telling me? It couldn\rquote t have been accidental.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It wasn\rquote t entirely. Quinn did most of the work. My men started quietly spreading the fact that I had never hit a man; that I was unable to hit a man; that to fail to do so under provocation would be sure proof that I was a robot. So I arranged for a silly speech in public, with all sorts of publicity overtones, and almost inevitably, some fool fell for it. In its essence, it was what I call a shyster trick. One in which the artificial atmosphere which has been created does all the work. Of course, the emotional effects made my election certain, as intended.\rdblquote\par
\tab The robopsychologist nodded. \ldblquote I see you intrude on my field -- as every politician must, I suppose. But I\rquote m very sorry it turned out this way. I like robots. I like them considerably better than I do human beings. If a robot can be created capable of being a civil executive, I think he\rquote d make the best one possible. By the Laws of Robotics, he\rquote d be incapable of harming humans, incapable of tyranny, of corruption, of stupidity, of prejudice. And after he had served a decent term, he would leave, even though he were immortal, because it would be impossible for him to hurt humans by letting them know that a robot had ruled them. It would be most ideal.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Except that a robot might fail due to the inherent inadequacies of his brain. The positronic brain has never equaled the complexities of the human brain.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote He would have advisers. Not even a human brain is capable of governing without assistance.\rdblquote\par
\tab Byerley considered Susan Calvin with grave interest. \ldblquote Why do you smile, Dr. Calvin?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I smile because Mr. Quinn didn\rquote t think of everything.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You mean there could be more to that story of his.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Only a little. For the three months before election, this Stephen Byerley that Mr. Quinn spoke about, this broken man, was in the country for some mysterious reason. He returned in time for that famous speech of yours. And after all, what the old cripple did once, he could do a second time, particularly where the second job is very simple in comparison to the first.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t quite understand.\rdblquote\par
\tab Dr. Calvin rose and smoothed her dress. She was obviously ready to leave. \ldblquote I mean there is one time when a robot may strike a human being without breaking the First Law. Just one time.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And when is that?\rdblquote\par
\tab Dr. Calvin was at the door. She said quietly, \ldblquote When the human to be struck is merely another robot.\rdblquote\par
\tab She smiled broadly, her thin face glowing. \ldblquote Good-by Mr. Byerley. I hope to vote for you five years from now -- for Co-ordinator.\rdblquote\par
\tab Stephen Byerley chuckled. \ldblquote I must reply that that is a somewhat farfetched idea.\rdblquote\par
\tab The door closed behind her.\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page The Evitable Conflict\par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\scaps The Co-ordinator, in his private study, had\scaps0  that medieval curiosity, a fireplace. To be sure, the medieval man might not have recognized it as such, since it had no functional significance. The quiet, licking flame lay in an insulated recess behind clear quartz.\par
\tab The logs were ignited at long distance through a trifling diversion of the energy beam that fed the public buildings of the city. The same button that controlled the ignition first dumped the ashes of the previous fire, and allowed for the entrance of fresh wood. -- It was a thoroughly domesticated fireplace, you see.\par
\tab But the fire itself was real. It was wired for sound, so that you could hear the crackle and, of course, you could watch it leap in the air stream that fed it.\par
\tab The Co-ordinator\rquote s ruddy glass reflected, in miniature, the discreet gamboling of the flame, and, in even further miniature, it was reflected in each of his brooding pupils.\par
\tab And in the frosty pupils of his guest, Dr. Susan Calvin of U. S. Robots & Mechanical Men Corporation.\par
\tab The Co-ordinator said, \ldblquote I did not ask you here entirely for social purposes, Susan.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I did not think you did, Stephen,\rdblquote  she replied.\par
\tab\ldblquote --And yet I don\rquote t quite know how to phrase my problem. On the one hand, it can be nothing at all. On the other, it can mean the end of humanity.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I have come across so many problems, Stephen, that presented the same alternative. I think all problems do.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Really? Then judge this -- World Steel reports an overproduction of twenty thousand long tons. The Mexican Canal is two months behind schedule. The mercury mines at Almaden have experienced a production deficiency since last spring, while the Hydroponics plant at Tientsin has been laying men off. These items happen to come to mind at the moment. There is more of the same sort.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Are these things serious? I\rquote m not economist enough to trace the fearful consequences of such things.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote In themselves, they are not serious. Mining experts can be sent to Almaden, if the situation were to get worse. Hydroponics engineers can be used in Java or in Ceylon, if there are too many at Tientsin. Twenty thousand long tons of steel won\rquote t fill more than a few days of world demand, and the opening of the Mexican Canal two months later than the planned date is of little moment. It\rquote s the Machines that worry me; I\rquote ve spoken to your Director of Research about them already.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote To Vincent Silver? -- He hasn\rquote t mentioned anything about it to me.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I asked him to speak to no one. Apparently, he hasn\rquote t.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And what did he tell you?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Let me put that item in its proper place. I want to talk about the Machines first. And I want to talk about them to you, because you\rquote re the only one in the world who understands robots well enough to help me now. -- May I grow philosophical?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote For this evening, Stephen, you may talk how you please and of what you please, provided you tell me first what you intend to prove.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That such small unbalances in the perfection of our system of supply and demand, as I have mentioned, may be the first step towards the final war.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Hmp. Proceed.\rdblquote\par
\tab Susan Calvin did not allow herself to relax, despite the designed comfort of the chair she sat in. Her cold, thin-lipped face and her flat, even voice were becoming accentuated with the years. And although Stephen Byerley was one man she could like and trust, she was almost seventy and the cultivated habits of a lifetime are not easily broken.\par
\tab\ldblquote Every period of human development, Susan,\rdblquote  said the Co-ordinator, \ldblquote has had its own particular type of human conflict -- its own variety of problem that, apparently, could be settled only by force. And each time, frustratingly enough, force never really settled the problem. Instead, it persisted through a series of conflicts, then vanished of itself, -- what\rquote s the expression, -- ah, yes \lquote not with a bang, but a whimper,\rquote  as the economic and social environment changed. And then, new problems, and a new series of wars, -- apparently endlessly cyclic.\par
\tab\ldblquote Consider relatively modern times. There were the series of dynastic wars in the sixteenth to eighteenth centuries, when the most important question in Europe was whether the houses of Hapsburg or Valois-Bourbon were to rule the continent. It was one of those \lquote inevitable conflicts,\rquote  since Europe could obviously not exist half one and half the other.\par
\tab\ldblquote Except that it did, and no war ever wiped out the one and established the other, until the rise of a new social atmosphere in France in 1789 tumbled first the Bourbons and, eventually, the Hapsburgs down the dusty chute to history\rquote s incinerator.\par
\tab\ldblquote And in those same centuries there were the more barbarous religious wars, which revolved about the important question of whether Europe was to be Catholic or Protestant. Half and half she could not be. It was \lquote inevitable\rquote  that the sword decide. -- Except that it didn\rquote t. In England, a new industrialism was growing, and on the continent, a new nationalism. Half and half Europe remains to this day and no one cares much.\par
\tab\ldblquote In the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, there was a cycle of nationalist-imperialist wars, when the most important question in the world was which portions of Europe would control the economic resources and consuming capacity of which portions of non-Europe. All non-Europe obviously could not exist part English and part French and part German and so on. -- Until the forces of nationalism spread sufficiently, so that non-Europe ended what all the wars could not, and decided it could exist quite comfortably \i all\i0  non-European.\par
\tab\ldblquote And so we have a pattern-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes. Stephen, you make it plain,\rdblquote  said Susan Calvin. \ldblquote These are not very profound observations.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No. -- But then, it is the obvious which is so difficult to see most of the time. People say \lquote It\rquote s as plain as the nose on your face.\rquote  But how much of the nose on your face can you see, unless someone holds a mirror up to you? In the twentieth century, Susan, we started a new cycle of wars -- what shall I call them? Ideological wars? The emotions of religion applied to economic systems, rather than to extra-natural ones? Again the wars were \lquote inevitable\rquote  and this time there were atomic weapons, so that mankind could no longer live through its torment to the inevitable wasting away of inevitability. -- And positronic robots came.\par
\tab\ldblquote They came in time, and, with it and alongside it, interplanetary travel. -- So that it no longer seemed so important whether the world was Adam Smith or Karl Marx. Neither made very much sense under the new circumstances. Both had to adapt and they ended in almost the same place.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote A deus ex machina, then, in a double sense,\rdblquote  said Dr. Calvin, dryly.\par
\tab The Co-ordinator smiled gently, \ldblquote I have never heard you pun before, Susan, but you are correct. And yet there was another danger. The ending of every other problem had merely given birth to another. Our new worldwide robot economy may develop its own problems, and for that reason we have the Machines. The Earth\rquote s economy is stable, and will \i remain\i0  stable, because it is based upon the decisions of calculating machines that have the good of humanity at heart through the overwhelming force of the First Law of Robotics.\rdblquote\par
\tab Stephen Byerley continued, \ldblquote And although the Machines are nothing but the vastest conglomeration of calculating circuits ever invented, they are still robots within the meaning of the First Law, and so our Earth-wide economy is in accord with the best interests of Man. The population of Earth knows that there will be no unemployment, no over-production or shortages. Waste and famine are words in history books. And so the question of ownership of the means of production becomes obsolescent. Whoever owned them (if such a phrase has meaning), a man, a group, a nation, or all mankind, they could be utilized only as the Machines directed. -- Not because men were forced to but because it was the wisest course and men knew it.\par
\tab\ldblquote It puts an end to war -- not only to the last cycle of wars, but to the next and to all of them. Unless-\rdblquote\par
\tab A long pause, and Dr. Calvin encouraged him by repetition. \ldblquote Unless-\rdblquote\par
\tab The fire crouched and skittered along a log, then popped up.\par
\tab\ldblquote Unless,\rdblquote  said the Co-ordinator, \ldblquote the Machines don\rquote t fulfill their function.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I see. And that is where those trifling maladjustments come in which you mentioned awhile ago -- steel, hydroponics and so on.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Exactly. Those errors should not be. Dr. Silver tells me they \i cannot\i0  be.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Does he deny the facts? How unusual!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, he admits the facts, of course. I do him an injustice. What he denies is that any error in the machine is responsible for the so-called (his phrase) errors in the answers. He claims that the Machines are self-correcting and that it would violate the fundamental laws of nature for an error to exist in the circuits of relays. And so I said -\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And you said, \lquote Have your boys check them and make sure, anyway.\rquote\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Susan, you read my mind. It was what I said, and he said he couldn\rquote t.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Too busy?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, he said that no human could. He was frank about it. He told me, and I hope I understand him properly, that the Machines are a gigantic extrapolation. Thus, a team of mathematicians work several years calculating a positronic brain equipped to do certain similar acts of calculation. Using this brain they make further calculations to create a still more complicated brain, which they use again to make one still more complicated and so on. According to Silver, what we call the Machines are the result of ten such steps.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Ye-es, that sounds familiar. Fortunately, I\rquote m not a mathematician. Poor Vincent. He is a young man. The Directors before him, Alfred Lanning and Peter Bogert, are dead, and they had no such problems. Nor had I. Perhaps roboticists as a whole should now die, since we can no longer understand our own creations.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Apparently not. The Machines are not super-brains in Sunday supplement sense, -- although they are so pictured in the Sunday supplements. It is merely that in their own particular province of collecting and analyzing a nearly infinite number of data and relationships thereof, in nearly infinitesimal time, they have progressed beyond the possibility of detailed human control.\par
\tab\ldblquote And then I tried something else. I actually asked the Machine. In the strictest secrecy, we fed it the original data involved in the steel decision, its own answer, and the actual developments since, --the overproduction, that is, -- and asked for an explanation of the discrepancy.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Good, and what was its answer?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I can quote you that word for word: \lquote The matter admits of no explanation.\rquote  \ldblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And how did Vincent interpret that?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote In two ways. Either we had not given the Machine enough data to allow a definite answer, which was unlikely. Dr. Silver admitted that. -- Or else, it was impossible for the Machine to admit that it could give any answer to data which implied that it could harm a human being. This, naturally, is implied by the First Law. And then Dr. Silver recommended that I see you.\rdblquote\par
\tab Susan Calvin looked very tired, \ldblquote I\rquote m old, Stephen. When Peter Bogert died, they wanted to make me Director of Research and I refused. I wasn\rquote t young then, either, and I did not wish the responsibility. They let young Silver have it and that satisfied me; but what good is it, if I am dragged into such messes.\par
\tab\ldblquote Stephen, let me state my position. My researches do indeed involve the interpretation of robot behavior in the light of the Three Laws of Robotics. Here, now, we have these incredible calculating machines. They are positronic robots and therefore obey the Laws of Robotics. But they lack personality; that is, their functions are extremely limited. Must be, since they are so specialized. Therefore, there is very little room for the interplay of the Laws, and my one method of attack is virtually useless. In short, I don\rquote t know that I can help you, Stephen.\rdblquote\par
\tab The Co-ordinator laughed shortly, \ldblquote Nevertheless, let me tell you the rest. Let me give you \i my\i0  theories, and perhaps you will then be able to tell me whether they are possible in the light of robopsychology.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote By all means. Go ahead.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, since the Machines are giving the wrong answers, then, assuming that they cannot be in error, there is only one possibility. \i They are being given the wrong data!\i0  In other words, the trouble is human, and not robotic. So I took my recent planetary inspection tour-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote From which you have just returned to New York.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes. It was necessary, you see, since there are four Machines, one handling each of the Planetary Regions. \i And all four are yielding imperfect results\i0 .\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, but that follows, Stephen. If any one of the Machines is imperfect, that will automatically reflect in the result of the other three, since each of the others will assume as part of the data on which they base their own decisions, the perfection of the imperfect fourth. With a false assumption, they will yield false answers.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Uh-huh. So it seemed to me. Now, I have here the records of my interviews with each of the Regional Vice-Coordinators. Would you look through them with me? -- Oh, and first, have you heard of the \lquote Society for Humanity\rquote ?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Umm, yes. They are an outgrowth of the Fundamentalists who have kept U. S. Robots from ever employing positronic robots on the grounds of unfair labor competition and so on. The \lquote Society for Humanity\rquote  itself is anti-Machine, is it not?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, yes, but -- Well, you will see. Shall we begin? We\rquote ll start with the Eastern Region.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote As you say-\rdblquote\par
\f3\par
\i\f0 The Eastern Region\par
\pard{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent360\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\tx720 Area: 7,500,000 square miles\par
{\pntext\f0 2.\tab}Population: 1,700,000,000\par
{\pntext\f0 3.\tab}Capital: Shanghai\par
\pard\i0\f3\par
\tab\f0 Ching Hso-lin\rquote s great-grandfather had been killed in the Japanese invasion of the old Chinese Republic, and there had been no one beside his dutiful children to mourn his loss or even to know he was lost. Ching Hso-lin\rquote s grandfather had survived the civil war of the late forties, but there had been no one beside \i his\i0  dutiful children to know or care of that.\par
\tab And yet Ching Hso-lin was a Regional Vice-Co-ordinator, with the economic welfare of half the people of Earth in his care.\par
\tab Perhaps it was with the thought of all that in mind, that Ching had two maps as the only ornaments on the wall of his office. One was an old hand-drawn affair tracing out an acre or two of land, and marked with the now outmoded pictographs of old China. A little creek trickled aslant the faded markings and there were the delicate pictorial indications of lowly huts, in one of which Ching\rquote s grandfather had been born.\par
\tab The other map was a huge one, sharply delineated, with all markings in neat Cyrillic characters. The red boundary that marked the Eastern Region swept within its grand confines all that had once been China, India, Burma, Indo-China, and Indonesia. On it, within the old province of Szechuan, so light and gentle that none could see it, was the little mark placed there by Ching which indicated the location of his ancestral farm.\par
\tab Ching stood before these maps as he spoke to Stephen Byerley in precise English, \ldblquote No one knows better than you, Mr. Co-ordinator, that my job, to a large extent, is a sinecure. It carries with it a certain social standing, and I represent a convenient focal point for administration, but otherwise it is the Machine! -- The Machine does all the work. What did you think, for instance, of the Tientsin Hydroponics works?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Tremendous!\rdblquote  said Byerley.\par
\tab\ldblquote It is but one of dozens, and not the largest. Shanghai, Calcutta, Batavia, Bangkok -- They are widely spread and they are the answer to feeding the billion and three quarters of the East.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And yet,\rdblquote  said Byerley, \ldblquote you have an unemployment problem there at Tientsin. Can you be over-producing? It is incongruous to think of Asia as suffering from too much food.\rdblquote\par
\tab Ching\rquote s dark eyes crinkled at the edges. \ldblquote No. It has not come to that yet. It is true that over the last few months, several vats at Tientsin have been shut down, but it is nothing serious. The men have been released only temporarily and those who do not care to work in other fields have been shipped to Colombo in Ceylon, where a new plant is being put into operation.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But why should the vats be closed down?\rdblquote\par
\tab Ching smiled gently, \ldblquote You do not know much of hydroponics, I see. Well, that is not surprising. You are a Northerner, and there soil farming is still profitable. It is fashionable in the North to think of hydroponics, when it is thought of at all, as a device of growing turnips in a chemical solution, and so it is -- in an infinitely complicated way.\par
\tab\ldblquote In the first place, by far the largest crop we deal with (and the percentage is growing) is yeast. We have upward of two thousand strains of yeast in production and new strains are added monthly. The basic food-chemicals of the various yeasts are nitrates and phosphates among the inorganics together with proper amounts of the trace metals needed, down to the fractional parts per million of boron and molybdenum which are required. The organic matter is mostly sugar mixtures derived from the hydrolysis of cellulose, but, in addition, there are various food factors which must be added.\par
\tab\ldblquote For a successful hydroponics industry -- one which can feed seventeen hundred million people -- we must engage in an immense reforestation program throughout the East; we must have huge wood-conversion plants to deal with our southern jungles; we must have power, and steel, and chemical synthetics above all.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why the last, sir?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Because, Mr. Byerley, these strains of yeast have each their peculiar properties. We have developed, as I said, two thousand strains. The beefsteak you thought you ate today was yeast. The frozen fruit confection you had for dessert was iced yeast. We have filtered yeast juice with the taste, appearance, and all the food value of milk.\par
\tab\ldblquote It is flavor, more than anything else, you see, that makes yeast feeding popular and for the sake of flavor we have developed artificial, domesticated strains that can no longer support themselves on a basic diet of salts and sugar. One needs biotin; another needs pteroylglutamic acid; still others need seventeen different amino acids supplied them as well as all the Vitamins B, but one (and yet it is popular and we cannot, with economic sense, abandon it) --\rdblquote\par
\tab Byerley stirred in his seat, \ldblquote To what purpose do you tell me all this?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You asked me, sir, why men are out of work in Tientsin. I have a little more to explain. It is not only that we must have these various and varying foods for our yeast; but there remains the complicating factor of popular fads with passing time; and of the possibility of the development of new strains with the new requirements and new popularity. All this must be foreseen, and the Machine does the job-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But not perfectly.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Not very \i im\i0 perfectly, in view of the complications I have mentioned. Well, then, a few thousand workers in Tientsin are temporarily out of a job. But, consider this, the amount of waste in this past year (waste that is, in terms of either defective supply or defective demand) amounts to not one-tenth of one percent of our total productive turnover. I consider that-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yet in the first years of the Machine, the figure was nearer one-thousandth of one percent.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Ah, but in the decade since the Machine began its operations in real earnest, we have made use of it to increase our old pre-Machine yeast industry twenty-fold. You expect imperfections to increase with complications, though-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Though?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote There \i was\i0  the curious instance of Rama Vrasayana.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What happened to him?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Vrasayana was in charge of a brine-evaporation plant for the production of iodine, with which yeast can do without, but human beings not. His plant was forced into receivership.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Really? And through what agency?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Competition, believe it or not. In general, one of the chiefest functions of the Machine\rquote s analyses is to indicate the most efficient distribution of our producing units. It is obviously faulty to have areas insufficiently serviced, so that the transportation costs account for too great a percentage of the overhead. Similarly, it is faulty to have an area too well serviced, so that factories must be run at lowered capacities, or else compete harmfully with one another. In the case of Vrasayana, another plant was established in the same city, and with a more efficient extracting system.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The Machine permitted it?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, certainly. That is not surprising. The new system is becoming widespread. The surprise is that the Machine failed to warn Vrasayana to renovate or combine. -- Still, no matter. Vrasayana accepted a job as engineer in the new plant, and if his responsibility and pay are now less, he is not actually suffering. The workers found employment easily; the old plant has been converted to -- something or other. Something useful. We left it all to the Machine.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And otherwise you have no complaints.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote None!\rdblquote\par
\f3\par
\i\f0 The Tropic Region:\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\tx720 a.\tab Area: 22,000,000 square miles\par
\pard\fi-360\li720 b.\tab Population: 500,000,000\par
c.\tab Capital: Capital City\par
\pard\i0\f3\par
\tab\f0 The map in Lincoln Ngoma\rquote s office was far from the model of neat precision of the one in Ching\rquote s Shanghai dominion. The boundaries of Ngoma\rquote s Tropic Region were stenciled in dark, wide brown and swept about a gorgeous interior labeled \ldblquote jungle\rdblquote  and \ldblquote desert\rdblquote  and \ldblquote here be Elephants and all Manner of Strange Beasts.\rdblquote\par
\tab It had much to sweep, for in land area the Tropic Region enclosed most of two continents: all of South America north of Argentina and all of Africa south of the Atlas. It included North America south of the Rio Grande as well, and even Arabia and Iran in Asia. It was the reverse of the Eastern Region. Where the ant hives of the Orient crowded half of humanity into 15 percent of the land mass, the Tropics stretched its 15 per cent of Humanity over nearly half of all the land in the world.\par
\tab But it was growing. It was the one Region whose population increase through immigration exceeded that through births. -- And for all who came it had use.\par
\tab To Ngoma, Stephen Byerley seemed like one of these immigrants, a pale searcher for the creative work of carving a harsh environment into the softness necessary for man, and he felt some of that automatic contempt of the strong man born to the strong Tropics for the unfortunate pallards of the colder suns.\par
\tab The Tropics had the newest capital city on Earth, and it was called simply that: \ldblquote Capital City,\rdblquote  in the sublime confidence of youth. It spread brightly over the fertile uplands of Nigeria and outside Ngoma\rquote s windows, far below, was life and color; the bright, bright sun and the quick, drenching showers. Even the squawking of the rainbowed birds was brisk and the stars were hard pinpoints in the sharp night.\par
\tab Ngoma laughed. He was a big, dark man, strong faced and handsome.\par
\tab\ldblquote Sure,\rdblquote  he said, and his English was colloquial and mouth-filling, \ldblquote the Mexican Canal is overdue. What the hell? It will get finished just the same, old boy.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It was doing well up to the last half year.\rdblquote\par
\tab Ngoma looked at Byerley and slowly crunched his teeth over the end of a big cigar, spitting out one end and lighting the other, \ldblquote Is this an official investigation, Byerley? What\rquote s going on?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Nothing. Nothing at all. It\rquote s just my function as Coordinator to be curious.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, if it\rquote s just that you are filling in a dull moment, the truth is that we\rquote re always short on labor. There\rquote s lots going on in the Tropics. The Canal is only one of them-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But doesn\rquote t your Machine predict the amount of labor available for the Canal, -- allowing for all the competing projects?\rdblquote\par
\tab Ngoma placed one hand behind his neck and blew smoke rings at the ceiling, \ldblquote It was a little off.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Is it often a little off?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Not oftener than you would expect. -- We don\rquote t expect too much of it, Byerley. We feed it data. We take its results. We do what it says. -- But it\rquote s just a convenience, just a laborsaving device. We could do without it, if we had to. Maybe not as well, maybe not as quickly, but we\rquote d get there.\par
\tab\ldblquote We\rquote ve got confidence out here, Byerley, and that\rquote s the secret. Confidence! We\rquote ve got new land that\rquote s been waiting for us for thousands of years, while the rest of the world was being ripped apart in the lousy fumblings of pre-atomic time. We don\rquote t have to eat yeast like the Eastern boys, and we don\rquote t have to worry about the stale dregs of the last century like you Northerners.\par
\tab\ldblquote We\rquote ve wiped out the tsetse fly and the Anopheles mosquito, and people find they can live in the sun and like it, now. We\rquote ve thinned down the jungles and found soil; we\rquote ve watered the deserts and found gardens. We\rquote ve got coal and oil in untouched fields, and minerals out of count.\par
\tab\ldblquote Just step back. That\rquote s all we ask the rest of the world to do. -- Step back, and let us work.\rdblquote\par
\tab Byerley said, prosaically, \ldblquote But the Canal, -- it was on schedule six months ago. What happened?\rdblquote\par
\tab Ngoma spread his hands, \ldblquote Labor troubles.\rdblquote  He felt through a pile of papers skeltered about his desk and gave it up.\par
\tab\ldblquote Had something on the matter here,\rdblquote  he muttered, \ldblquote but never mind. There was a work shortage somewhere in Mexico once on the question of women. There weren\rquote t enough women in the neighborhood. It seemed no one had thought of feeding sexual data to the Machine.\rdblquote\par
\tab He stopped to laugh, delightedly, then sobered, \ldblquote Wait a while. I think I\rquote ve got it. -- Villafranca!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Villafranca?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Francisco Villafranca. -- He was the engineer in charge. Now let me straighten it out. Something happened and there was a cave-in. Right. Right. That was it. Nobody died, as I remember, but it made a hell of a mess. -- Quite a scandal.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote There was some mistake in his calculations. -- Or at least, the Machine said so. They fed through Villafranca\rquote s data, assumptions, and so on. The stuff he had started with. The answers came out differently. It seems the answers Villafranca had used didn\rquote t take account of the effect of a heavy rainfall on the contours of the cut. -- Or something like that. I\rquote m not an engineer, you understand.\par
\tab\ldblquote Anyway, Villafranca put up a devil of a squawk. He claimed the Machine\rquote s answer had been different the first time. That he had followed the Machine faithfully. Then he quit! We offered to hold him on -- reasonable doubt, previous work satisfactory, and all that -- in a subordinate position, of course -- had to do that much -- mistakes can\rquote t go unnoticed -- bad for discipline -- Where was I?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You offered to hold him on.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh yes. He refused. -- Well, take all in all, we\rquote re two months behind. Hell, that\rquote s nothing.\rdblquote\par
\tab Byerley stretched out his hand and let the fingers tap lightly on the desk, \ldblquote Villafranca blamed the Machine, did he?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, he wasn\rquote t going to blame himself, was he? Let\rquote s face it; human nature is an old friend of ours. Besides, I remember something else now -- Why the hell can\rquote t I find documents when I want them? My filing system isn\rquote t worth a damn -- This Villafranca was a member of one of your Northern organizations. Mexico is too close to the North! that\rquote s part of the trouble.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Which organization are you speaking of?\rquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The Society of Humanity, they call it. He used to attend the annual conference in New York, Villafranca did. Bunch of crackpots, but harmless. -- They don\rquote t like the Machines; claim they\rquote re destroying human initiative. So naturally Villafranca would blame the Machine. -- Don\rquote t understand that group myself. Does Capital City look as if the human race were running out of initiative?\rdblquote  \par
\tab And Capital City stretched out in golden glory under a golden sun, -- the newest and youngest creation of \i Homo metropolis\i0 .\par
\f3\par
\i\f0 The European Region\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\tx720 a.\tab Area: 4,000,000 square miles\par
\pard\fi-360\li720 b.\tab Population: 300,000,000\par
c.\tab Capital: Geneva\par
\pard\i0\f3\par
\tab\f0 The European Region was an anomaly in several ways. In area, it was far the smallest, not one-fifth the size of the Tropic Region in area, and not one-fifth the size of the Eastern Region in population. Geographically, it was only somewhat similar to pre-Atomic Europe, since it excluded what had once been European Russia and what had once been the British Isles, while it included the Mediterranean coasts of Africa and Asia, and, in a queer jump across the Atlantic, Argentina, Chile, and Uruguay as well.\par
\tab Nor was it likely to improve its relative status vis-\'e0-vis the other regions of Earth, except for what vigor the South American provinces lent it. Of all the Regions, it alone showed a positive population decline over the past half century. It alone had not seriously expanded its productive facilities, or offered anything radically new to human culture.\par
\tab\ldblquote Europe,\rdblquote  said Madame Szegeczowska, in her soft French, \ldblquote is essentially an economic appendage of the Northern Region. We know it, and it doesn\rquote t matter.\rdblquote\par
\tab And as though in resigned acceptance of a lack of individuality, there was no map of Europe on the wall of the Madame Co-ordinator\rquote s office.\par
\tab\ldblquote And yet,\rdblquote  pointed out Byerley, \ldblquote you have a Machine of your own, and you are certainly under no economic pressure from across the ocean.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote A Machine! Bah!\rdblquote  She shrugged her delicate shoulders, and allowed a thin smile to cross her little face as she tamped out a cigarette with long fingers. \ldblquote Europe is a sleepy place. And such of our men as do not manage to immigrate to the Tropics are tired and sleepy along with it. You see for yourself that it is myself, a poor woman, to whom falls the task of being Vice-Co-ordinator. Well, fortunately, it is not a difficult job, and not much is expected of me.\par
\tab\ldblquote As for the Machine -- What can it say but \lquote Do this and it will be best for you.\rquote  But what is best for us? Why, to be an economic appendage of the Northern Region.\par
\tab\ldblquote And is it so terrible? No wars! We live in peace -- and it is pleasant after seven thousand years of war. We are old, monsieur. In our borders, we have the regions where Occidental civilization was cradled. We have Egypt and Mesopotamia; Crete and Syria; Asia Minor and Greece. -- But old age is not necessarily an unhappy time. It can be a fruition-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Perhaps you are right,\rdblquote  said Byerley, affably. \ldblquote At least the tempo of life is not as intense as in the other Regions. It is a pleasant atmosphere.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Is it not? -- Tea is being brought, monsieur. If you will indicate your cream and sugar preference, please. Thank you.\par
\tab She sipped gently, then continued, \ldblquote It \i is\i0  pleasant. The rest of Earth is welcome to the continuing struggle. I find a parallel here, a very interesting one. There was a time when Rome was master of the world. It had adopted the culture and civilization of Greece, a Greece which had never been united, which had ruined itself with war, and which was ending in a state of decadent squalor. Rome united it, brought it peace and let it live a life of secure non-glory. It occupied itself with its philosophies and its art, far from the clash of growth and war. It was a sort of death, but it was restful, and it lasted with minor breaks for some four hundred years.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And yet,\rdblquote  said Byerley, \ldblquote Rome fell eventually, and the opium dream was over.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote There are no longer barbarians to overthrow civilization.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We can be our own barbarians. Madame Szegeczowska. -- Oh, I meant to ask you. The Almaden mercury mines have fallen off quite badly in production. Surely the ores are not declining more rapidly than anticipated?\rdblquote\par
\tab The little woman\rquote s gray eyes fastened shrewdly on Byerley, \ldblquote Barbarians -- the fall of civilization -- possible failure of the Machine. Your thought processes are very transparent, monsieur.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Are they?\rdblquote  Byerley smiled. \ldblquote I see that I should have had men to deal with as hitherto. -- You consider the Almaden affair to be the fault of the Machine?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Not at all, but I think you do. You, yourself, are a native of the Northern Region. The Central Co-ordination Office is at New York. -- And I have noticed for quite a while that you Northerners lack somewhat of faith in the Machine.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We do?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote There is your \lquote Society for Humanity\rquote  which is strong in the North, but naturally fails to find many recruits in tired, old Europe, which is quite willing to let feeble Humanity alone for a while. Surely, you are one of the confident North and not one of the cynical old continent.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote This has a connection with Almaden?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, yes, I think so. The mines are in the control of Consolidated Cinnabar, which is certainly a Northern company, with headquarters at Nikolaev. Personally, I wonder if the Board of Directors have been consulting the Machine at all. They said they had in our conference last month, and, of course, we have no evidence that they did not, but I wouldn\rquote t take the word of a Northerner in this matter -- no offense intended -- under any circumstances. -- Nevertheless, I think it will have a fortunate ending.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote In what way, my dear madam?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You must understand that the economic irregularities of the last few months, which, although small as compared with the great storms of the past, are quite disturbing to our peace-drenched spirits, have caused considerable restiveness in the Spanish province. I understand that Consolidated Cinnabar is selling out to a group of native Spaniards. It is consoling. If we are economic vassals of the North, it is humiliating to have the fact advertised too blatantly. -- And our people can be better trusted to follow the Machine.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then you think there will be no more trouble?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I am sure there will not be -- In Almaden, at least.\rdblquote\par
\f3\par
\i\f0 The Northern Region\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\tx720 a.\tab Area: 18,000,000 square miles\par
\pard\fi-360\li720 b.\tab Population: 800,000,000\par
c.\tab Capital: Ottawa\par
\pard\i0\f3\par
\tab\f0 The Northern Region, in more ways than one, was at the top. This was exemplified quite well by the map in the Ottawa office of Vice-Co-ordinator Hiram Mackenzie, in which the North Pole was centered. Except for the enclave of Europe with its Scandinavian and Icelandic regions, all the Arctic area was within the Northern Region.\par
\tab Roughly, it could be divided into two major areas. To the left on the map was all of North America above the Rio Grande. To the right was included all of what had once been the Soviet Union. Together these areas represented the centered power of the planet in the first years of the Atomic Age. Between the two was Great Britain, a tongue of the Region licking at Europe. Up at the top of the map, distorted into odd, huge shapes, were Australia and New Zealand, also member provinces of the Region.\par
\tab Not all the changes of the past decades had yet altered the fact that the North was the economic ruler of the planet.\par
\tab There was almost an ostentatious symbolism thereof in the fact that of the official Regional maps Byerley had seen, Mackenzie\rquote s alone showed all the Earth, as though the North feared no competition and needed no favoritism to point up its pre-eminence.\par
\tab\ldblquote Impossible,\rdblquote  said Mackenzie, dourly, over the whiskey. \ldblquote Mr. Byerley, you have had no training as a robot technician, I believe.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, I have not.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Hmp. Well, it is, in my opinion, a sad thing that Ching, Ngoma and Szegeczowska haven\rquote t either. There is too prevalent an opinion among the peoples of Earth that a Co-ordinator need only be a capable organizer, a broad generalizer, and an amiable person. These days he should know his robotics as well, no offense intended.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote None taken. I agree with you.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I take it, for instance, from what you have said already, that you worry about the recent trifling dislocation in world economy. I don\rquote t know what you suspect, but it has happened in the past that people -- who should have known better -- wondered what would happen if false data were fed into the Machine.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And what would happen, Mr. Mackenzie?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  the Scotsman shifted his weight and sighed, \ldblquote all collected data goes through a complicated screening system which involves both human and mechanical checking, so that the problem is not likely to arise. -- But let us ignore that. Humans are fallible, also corruptible, and ordinary mechanical devices are liable to mechanical failure.\par
\tab\ldblquote The real point of the matter is that what we call a \lquote wrong datum\rquote  is one which is inconsistent with all other known data. It is our only criterion of right and wrong. It is the Machine\rquote s as well. Order it for instance, to direct agricultural activity on the basis of an average July temperature in Iowa of 57 degrees Fahrenheit. It won\rquote t accept that. It will not give an answer. -- Not that it has any prejudice against that particular temperature, or that an answer is impossible; but because, in the light of all the other data fed it over a period of years, it knows that the probability of an average July temperature of 57 is virtually nil. It rejects that datum.\par
\tab\ldblquote The only way a \lquote wrong datum\rquote  can be forced on the Machine is to include it as part of a self-consistent whole, all of which is subtly wrong in a manner either too delicate for the Machine to detect or outside the Machine\rquote s experience. The former is beyond human capacity, and the latter is almost so, and is becoming more nearly so as the Machine\rquote s experience increases by the second.\rdblquote\par
\tab Stephen Byerley placed two fingers to the bridge of his nose, \ldblquote Then the Machine cannot be tampered with -- And how do you account for recent errors, then?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote My dear Byerley, I see that you instinctively follow that great error -- that the Machine knows all. Let me cite you a case from my personal experience. The cotton industry engages experienced buyers who purchase cotton. Their procedure is to pull a tuft of cotton out of a random bale of a lot. They will look at that tuft and feel it, tease it out, listen to the crackling perhaps as they do so, touch it with their tongue, and through this procedure they will determine the class of cotton the bales represent. There are about a dozen such classes. As a result of their decisions, purchases are made at certain prices; blends are made in certain proportions. -- Now these buyers cannot yet be replaced by the Machine.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why not? Surely the data involved is not too complicated for it?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Probably not. But what data is this you refer to? No textile chemist knows exactly what it is that the buyer tests when he feels a tuft of cotton. Presumably there\rquote s the average length of the threads, their feel, the extent and nature of their slickness, the way they hang together, and so on. -- Several dozen items, subconsciously weighed, out of years of experience. But the \i quantitative\i0  nature of these tests is not known; maybe even the very nature of some of them is not known. So we have nothing to feed the Machine. Nor can the buyers explain their own judgment. They can only say, \lquote Well, look at it. Can\rquote t you \i tell\i0  it\rquote s class-such-and-such?\rquote  \ldblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I see.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote There are innumerable cases like that. The Machine is only a tool after all, which can help humanity progress faster by taking some of the burdens of calculations and interpretations off its back. The task of the human brain remains what it has always been, that of discovering new data to be analyzed, and of devising new concepts to be tested. A pity the Society for Humanity won\rquote t understand that.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote They are against the Machine?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote They would be against mathematics or against the art of writing if they had lived at the appropriate time. These reactionaries of the Society claim the Machine robs man of his soul. I notice that capable men are still at a premium in our society; we still need the man who is intelligent enough to think of the proper questions to ask. Perhaps if we could find enough of such, these dislocations you worry about, Coordinator, wouldn\rquote t occur.\rdblquote\par
\f3\par
\i\f0 Earth (Including the uninhabited continent, Antarctica)\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\tx720 a.\tab Area: 54,000,000 square miles (land surface)\par
\pard\fi-360\li720 b.\tab Population: 3,300,000,000\par
c.\tab Capital: New York\par
\pard\i0\f3\par
\tab\f0 The fire behind the quartz was weary now, and sputtered its reluctant way to death.\par
\tab The Co-ordinator was somber, his mood matching the sinking flame.\par
\tab\ldblquote They all minimize the state of affairs.\rdblquote  His voice was low. \ldblquote Is it not easy to imagine that they all laugh at me? And yet Vincent Silver said the Machines cannot be out of order, and I must believe him. Hiram Mackenzie says they cannot be fed false data, and I must believe him. But the Machines are going wrong, somehow, and I must believe that, too; and so there is \i still\i0  an alternative left.\rdblquote\par
\tab He glanced sidewise at Susan Calvin, who, with closed eyes, for a moment seemed asleep.\par
\tab\ldblquote What is that?\rdblquote  she asked, prompt to her cue, nevertheless.\par
\tab\ldblquote Why, that correct data is indeed given, and correct answers are indeed received, but that they are then ignored. There is no way the Machine can enforce obedience to its dictates.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Madame Szegeczowska hinted as much, with reference to Northerners in general, it seems to me.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote So she did.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And what purpose is served by disobeying the Machine? Let\rquote s consider motivations.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s obvious to me, and should be to you. It is a matter of rocking the boat, deliberately. There can be no serious conflicts on Earth, in which one group or another can seize more power than it has for what it thinks is its own good despite the harm to Mankind as a whole, while the Machines rule. If popular faith in the Machines can be destroyed to the point where they are abandoned, it will be the law of the jungle again. -- And not one of the four Regions can be freed of the suspicion of wanting just that.\par
\tab\ldblquote The East has half of humanity within its borders, and the Tropics more than half of Earth\rquote s resources. Each can feel itself the natural rulers of all Earth, and each has a history of humiliation by the North, for which it can be human enough to wish a senseless revenge. Europe has a tradition of greatness, on the other hand. It once did rule the Earth, and there is nothing so eternally adhesive as the memory of power.\par
\tab\ldblquote Yet, in another way, it\rquote s hard to believe. Both the East and the Tropics are in a state of enormous expansion within their own borders. Both are climbing incredibly. They cannot have the spare energy for military adventures. And Europe can have nothing but its dreams. It is a cipher, militarily.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote So, Stephen,\rdblquote  said Susan, \ldblquote you leave the North.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  said Byerley, energetically, \ldblquote I do. The North is now the strongest, and has been for nearly a century, or its component parts have been. But it is losing relatively, now. The Tropic Regions may take their place in the forefront of civilization for the first time since the Pharaohs, and there are Northerners who fear that.\par
\tab\ldblquote The \lquote Society for Humanity\rquote  is a Northern organization, primarily, you know, and they make no secret of not wanting the Machines. -- Susan, they are few in numbers, but it is an association of powerful men. Heads of factories; directors of industries and agricultural combines who hate to be what they call \lquote the Machine\rquote s office-boy\rquote  belong to it. Men with ambition belong to it. Men who feel themselves strong enough to decide for themselves what is best for themselves, and not just to be told what is best for others.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote In short, just those men who, by together refusing to accept the decisions of the Machine, can, in a short time, turn the world topsy-turvy; just those belong to the Society.\par
\tab\ldblquote Susan, it hangs together. Five of the Directors of World Steel are members, and World Steel suffers from overproduction. Consolidated Cinnabar, which mined mercury at Almaden, was a Northern concern. Its books are still being investigated, but one, at least, of the men concerned was a member. Francisco Villafranca, who, single-handed, delayed the Mexican Canal for two months, was a member, we know already -- and so was Rama Vrasayana, I was not at all surprised to find out.\rdblquote\par
\tab Susan said, quietly, \ldblquote These men, I might point out, have all done badly-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But naturally,\rdblquote  interjected Byerley. \ldblquote To disobey the Machine\rquote s analyses is to follow a non-optimal path. Results are poorer than they might be. It\rquote s the price they pay. They will have it rough now but in the confusion that will eventually follow-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Just what do you plan doing, Stephen?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote There is obviously no time to lose. I am going to have the Society outlawed, every member removed from any responsible post. And all executive and technical positions, henceforward, can be filled only by applicants signing a non-Society oath. It will mean a certain surrender of basic civil liberties, but I am sure the Congress-\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It won\rquote t work!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What! -- Why not?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I will make a prediction. If you try any such thing, you will find yourself hampered at every turn. You will find it impossible to carry out. You will find your every move in that direction will result in trouble.\rdblquote\par
\tab Byerley was taken aback, \ldblquote Why do you say that? I was rather hoping for your approval in this matter.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You can\rquote t have it as long as your actions are based on a false premise. You admit the Machine can\rquote t be wrong, and can\rquote t be fed wrong data. I will now show you that it cannot be disobeyed, either, as you think is being done by the Society.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote\i That\i0  I don\rquote t see at all.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then listen. Every action by any executive which does not follow the exact directions of the Machine he is working with becomes part of the data for the next problem. The Machine, therefore, knows that the executive has a certain tendency to disobey. He can incorporate that tendency into that data, -- even quantitatively, that is, judging exactly how much and in what direction disobedience would occur. Its next answers would be just sufficiently biased so that after the executive concerned disobeyed, he would have automatically corrected those answers to optimal directions. The Machine \i knows\i0 , Stephen!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You can\rquote t be sure of all this. You are guessing.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It is a guess based on a lifetime\rquote s experience with robots. You had better rely on such a guess, Stephen.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But then what is left? The Machines themselves are correct and the premises they work on are correct. That we have agreed upon. Now you say that it cannot be disobeyed. Then what is wrong?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You have answered yourself. \i Nothing is wrong!\i0  Think about the Machines for a while, Stephen. They are robots, and they follow the First Law. But the Machines work not for any single human being, but for all humanity, so that the First Law becomes: \lquote No Machine may harm humanity; or, through inaction, allow humanity to come to harm.\rquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Very well, then, Stephen, what harms humanity? Economic dislocations most of all, from whatever cause. Wouldn\rquote t you say so?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I would.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And what is most likely in the future to cause economic dislocations? Answer that, Stephen.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I should say,\rdblquote  replied Byerley, unwillingly, \ldblquote the destruction of the Machines.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And so should I say, and so should the Machines say. Their first care, therefore, is to preserve themselves, for us. And so they are quietly taking care of the only elements left that threaten them. It is not the \lquote Society for Humanity\rquote  which is shaking the boat so that the Machines may be destroyed. You have been looking at the reverse of the picture. Say rather that the Machine is shaking the boat--\i very\i0  slightly--just enough to shake loose those few which cling to the side for purposes the Machines consider harmful to Humanity.\par
\tab\ldblquote So Vrasayana loses his factory and gets another job where he can do no harm -- he is not badly hurt, he is not rendered incapable of earning a living, for the Machine cannot harm a human being more than minimally, and that only to save a greater number. Consolidated Cinnabar loses control at Almaden. Villafranca is no longer a civil engineer in charge of an important project. And the directors of World Steel are losing their grip on the industry -- or will.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But you don\rquote t really know all this,\rdblquote  insisted Byerley, distractedly. \ldblquote How can we possibly take a chance on your being right?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You must. Do you remember the Machine\rquote s own statement when you presented the problem to him? It was: \lquote The matter admits of no explanation.\rquote  The Machine did not say there was no explanation, or that it could determine no explanation. It simply was not going to \i admit\i0  any explanation. In other words, it would be harmful to humanity to have the explanation known, and that\rquote s why we can only guess -- and keep on guessing.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But how can the explanation do us harm? Assume that you are right, Susan.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why, Stephen, if I am right, it means that the Machine is conducting our future for us not only simply in direct answer to our direct questions, but in general answer to the world situation and to human psychology as a whole. And to know that may make us unhappy and may hurt our pride. The Machine cannot, \i must\i0  not, make us unhappy.\par
\tab\ldblquote Stephen, how do we know what the ultimate good of Humanity will entail? We haven\rquote t at \i our\i0  disposal the infinite factors that the Machine has at \i its!\i0  Perhaps, to give you a not unfamiliar example, our entire technical civilization has created more unhappiness and misery than it has removed. Perhaps an agrarian or pastoral civilization, with less culture and less people would be better. If so, the Machines must move in that direction, preferably without telling us, since in our ignorant prejudices we only know that what we are used to, is good -- and we would then fight change. Or perhaps a complete urbanization, or a completely caste-ridden society, or complete anarchy, is the answer. We don\rquote t know. Only the Machines know, and they are going there and taking us with them.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But you are telling me, Susan, that the \lquote Society for Humanity\rquote  is right; and that Mankind \i has\i0  lost its own say in its future.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It never had any, really. It was always at the mercy of economic and sociological forces it did not understand -- at the whims of climate, and the fortunes of war. Now the Machines understand them; and no one can stop them, since the Machines will deal with them as they are dealing with the Society, -- having, as they do, the greatest of weapons at their disposal, the absolute control of our economy.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote How horrible!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Perhaps how wonderful! Think, that for all time, all conflicts are finally evitable. Only the Machines, from now on, are inevitable!\rdblquote\par
\tab And the fire behind the quartz went out and only a curl of smoke was left to indicate its place.\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page Feminine Intuition \par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\i The Three Laws \i0 of \i Robotics: \par
1. A robot may not injure a human being or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm. \par
2. A robot must obey the orders given it by human beings except where such orders would conflict with the First Law. \par
3. A robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Law.\par
\par
\i0\tab For the first time in the history of United States Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation, a robot had been destroyed through accident on Earth itself. \par
\tab No one was to blame. The air vehicle had been demolished in mid-air and an unbelieving investigating committee was wondering whether they really dared announce the evidence that it had been hit by a meteorite. Nothing else could have been fast enough to prevent automatic avoidance; nothing else could have done the damage short of a nuclear blast and that was out of the question. \par
\tab Tie that in with a report of a flash in the night sky just before the vehicle had exploded--and from Flagstaff Observatory, not from an amateur--and the location of a sizable and distinctly meteoric bit of iron freshly gouged into the ground a mile from the site and what other conclusion could be arrived at? \par
\tab Still, nothing like that had ever happened before and calculations of the odds against it yielded monstrous figures. Yet even colossal improbabilities can happen sometimes. \par
\tab At the offices of United States Robots, the hows and whys of it were secondary. The real point was that a robot had been destroyed. \par
\tab That, in itself, was distressing. \par
\tab The fact that JN-5 had been a prototype, the first, after four earlier attempts, to have been placed in the field, was even more distressing. \par
\tab The fact that JN-5 was a radically new type of robot, quite different from anything ever built before, was abysmally distressing. \par
\tab The fact that JN-5 had apparently accomplished something before its destruction that was incalculably important and that that accomplishment might now be forever gone, placed the distress utterly beyond words. \par
\tab It\b  \b0 seemed scarcely worth mentioning that, along with the robot, the Chief Robopsychologist of United States Robots had also died. \par
\tab Clinton Madarian had joined the firm ten years before. For five of those years, he had worked uncomplainingly under the grumpy supervision of Susan Calvin. \par
\tab Madarian\rquote s brilliance was quite obvious and Susan Calvin had quietly promoted him over the heads of older men. She wouldn\rquote t, in any case, have deigned to give her reasons for this to Research Director Peter Bogert, but as it happened, no reasons were needed. Or, rather, they were obvious. \par
\tab Madarian was utterly the reverse of the renowned Dr. Calvin in several very noticeable ways. He was not quite as overweight as his distinct double chin made him appear to be, but even so he was overpowering in his presence, where Susan had gone nearly unnoticed. Madarian\rquote s massive face, his shock of glistening red-brown hair, his ruddy complexion and booming voice, his loud laugh, and most of all, his irrepressible self-confidence and his eager way of announcing his successes, made everyone else in the room feel there was a shortage of space. \par
\tab When Susan Calvin finally retired (refusing, in advance, any cooperation with respect to any testimonial dinner that might be planned in her honor, with so firm a manner that no announcement of the retirement was even made to the news services) Madarian took her place. \par
\tab He had been in his new post exactly one day when he initiated the JN project. \par
\tab It had meant the largest commitment of funds to one project that United States Robots had ever had to weigh, but that was something which Madarian dismissed with a genial wave of the hand. \par
\tab\ldblquote Worth every penny of it, Peter,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote And I expect you to convince the Board of Directors of that.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Give me reasons,\rdblquote  said Bogert, wondering if Madarian would. Susan Calvin had never given reasons. \par
\tab But Madarian said, \ldblquote Sure,\rdblquote  and settled himself easily into the large armchair in the Director\rquote s office. \par
\tab Bogert watched the other with something that was almost awe. His own once-black hair was almost white now and within the decade he would follow Susan into retirement. That would mean the end of the original team that had built United States Robots into a globe-girdling firm that was a rival of the national governments in complexity and importance. Somehow neither he nor those who had gone before him ever quite grasped the enormous expansion of the firm. \par
\tab But this was a new generation. The new men were at ease with the Colossus\rdblquote  They lacked the touch of wonder that would have them tiptoeing in disbelief. So they moved ahead, and that was good. \par
\tab Madarian said, \ldblquote I propose to begin the construction of robots without constraint.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Without the Three Laws? Surely--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, Peter. Are those the only constraints you can think of? Hell, you contributed to the design of the early positronic brains. Do I have to tell you that, quite aside from the Three Laws, there isn\rquote t a pathway in those brains that isn\rquote t carefully designed and fixed? We have robots planned for specific tasks, implanted with specific abilities.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And you propose--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That at every level below the Three Laws, the paths be made open-ended. It\rquote s not difficult.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Bogert said dryly, \ldblquote It\rquote s not difficult, indeed. Useless things are never difficult. The difficult thing is fixing the paths and making the robot useful.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But why is that difficult? Fixing the paths requires a great deal of effort because the Principle of Uncertainty is important in particles the mass of positrons and the uncertainty effect must be minimized. Yet why must it? If we arrange to have the Principle just sufficiently prominent to allow the crossing of paths unpredictably--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote We have an unpredictable robot.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote We have a \i creative \i0 robot,\rdblquote  said Madarian, with a trace of impatience. \ldblquote Peter, if there\rquote s anything a human brain has that a robotic brain has never had, it\rquote s the trace of unpredictability that comes from the effects of uncertainty at the subatomic level. I admit that this effect has never been demonstrated experimentally within the nervous system, but without that the human brain is not superior to the robotic brain in principle.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And you think that if you introduce the effect into the robotic brain, the human brain will become not superior to the robotic brain in principle.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That, \ldblquote  said Madarian, \ldblquote is exactly what I believe.\rdblquote  They went on for a long time after that. \par
\tab The Board of Directors clearly had no intention of being easily convinced. \par
\tab Scott Robertson, the largest shareholder in the firm, said, \ldblquote It\rquote s hard enough to manage the robot industry as it is, with public hostility to robots forever on the verge of breaking out into the open. If the public gets the idea that robots will be uncontrolled...Oh, don\rquote t tell me about the Three Laws. The average man won\rquote t believe the Three Laws will protect him if he as much as hears the word \lquote uncontrolled.\rquote  \ldblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Then don\rquote t use it, \ldblquote  said Madarian. \ldblquote Call the robot--call it \lquote intuitive.\rquote  \ldblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote An intuitive robot, \ldblquote  someone muttered. \ldblquote A girl robot?\rdblquote  A smile made its way about the conference table. \par
\tab Madarian seized on that. \ldblquote All right. A girl robot. Our robots are sexless, of course, and so will this one be, but we always act as though they\rquote re males. We give them male pet names and call them he and him. Now this one, if we consider the nature of the mathematical structuring of the brain which I have proposed, would fall into the JN-coordinate system. The first robot would be JN-1, and I\rquote ve assumed that it would be called John-10....I\rquote m afraid that is the level of originality of the average roboticist. But why not call it Jane-1, damn it? If the public has to be let in on what we\rquote re doing, we\rquote re constructing a feminine robot with intuition.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Robertson shook his head, \ldblquote What difference would that make? What you\rquote re saying is that you plan to remove the last barrier which, in principle, keeps the robotic brain inferior to the human brain. What do you suppose the public reaction will be to that?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Do you plan to make that public?\rdblquote  said Madarian. He thought a bit and then said, \ldblquote Look. One thing the general public believes is that women are not as intelligent as men.\rdblquote  \par
\tab There was an instant apprehensive look on the face of more than one man at the table and a quick look up and down as though Susan Calvin were still in her accustomed seat. \par
\tab Madarian said, \ldblquote If we announce a female robot, it doesn\rquote t matter what she is. The public will automatically assume she is mentally backward. We just publicize the robot as Jane-1 and we don\rquote t have to say another word. We\rquote re safe.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Actually,\rdblquote  said Peter Bogert quietly, \ldblquote there\rquote s more to it than that. Madarian and I have gone over the mathematics carefully and the JN series, whether John or Jane, would be quite safe. They would be less complex and intellectually capable, in an orthodox sense, than many another series we have designed and constructed. There would only be the one added factor of, well, let\rquote s get into the habit of calling it \lquote intuition.\rquote  \ldblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Who knows what it would do?\rdblquote  muttered Robertson. \par
\tab\ldblquote Madarian has suggested one thing it can do. As you all know, the Space Jump has been developed in principle. It is possible for men to attain what is, in effect, hyper-speeds beyond that of light and to visit other stellar systems and return in negligible time--weeks at the most.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Robertson said, \ldblquote That\rquote s not new to us. It couldn\rquote t have been done without robots.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Exactly, and it\rquote s not doing us any good because we can\rquote t use the hyper-speed drive except perhaps once as a demonstration, so that U. S. Robots gets little credit. The Space Jump is risky, it\rquote s fearfully prodigal of energy and therefore it\rquote s enormously expensive. If we were going to use it anyway, it would be nice if we could report the existence of a habitable planet. Call it a psychological need. Spend about twenty billion dollars on a single Space Jump and report nothing but scientific data and the public wants to know why their money was wasted. Report the existence of a habitable planet, and you\rquote re an interstellar Columbus and no one will worry about the money.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote So?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote So where are we going to find a habitable planet? Or put it this way--which star within reach of the Space Jump as presently developed, which of the three hundred thousand stars and star systems within three hundred light-years has the best chance of having a habitable planet? We\rquote ve got an enormous quantity of details on every star in our three-hundred-light-year neighborhood and a notion that almost every one has a planetary system. But which has a \i habitable \i0 planet? Which do we visit?...We don\rquote t know.\rdblquote  \par
\tab One of the directors said, \ldblquote How would this Jane robot help us?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Madarian was about to answer that, but he gestured slightly to Bogert and Bogert understood. The Director would carry more weight. Bogert didn\rquote t particularly like the idea; if the JN series proved a fiasco, he was making himself prominent enough in connection with it to insure that the sticky fingers of blame would cling to him. On the other hand, retirement was not all that far off, and if it worked, he would go out in a blaze of glory. Maybe it was only Madarian\rquote s aura of confidence, but Bogert had honestly come to believe it would work. \par
\tab He said, \ldblquote It may well be that somewhere in the libraries of data we have on those stars, there are methods for estimating the probabilities of the presence of Earth-type habitable planets. All we need to do is understand the data properly, look at them in the appropriate creative manner, make the correct correlations. We haven\rquote t done it yet. Or if some astronomer has, he hasn\rquote t been smart enough to realize what he has. \par
\tab\ldblquote A JN-type robot could make correlations far more rapidly and far more precisely than a man could. In a day, it would make and discard as many correlations as a man could in ten years. Furthermore, it would work in truly random fashion, whereas a man would have a strong bias based on preconception and on what is already believed.\rdblquote  \par
\tab There was a considerable silence after that Finally Robertson said, \ldblquote But it\rquote s only a matter of probability, isn\rquote t it? Suppose this robot said, \lquote The highest-probability habitable-planet star within so-and-so light-years is Squidgee-17\rdblquote  or whatever, and we go there and find that a probability is only a probability and that there are no habitable planets after all. Where does that leave us?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Madarian struck in this time. \ldblquote We still win. We know how the robot came to the conclusion because it--she--will tell us. It might well help us gain enormous insight into astronomical detail and make the whole thing worthwhile even if we don\rquote t make the Space Jump at all. Besides, we can then work out the five most probable sites of planets and the probability that one of the five has a habitable planet may then be better than 0.95. It would be almost sure--\rdblquote  \par
\tab They went on for a long time after that. \par
\tab The funds granted were quite insufficient, but Madarian counted on the habit of throwing good money after bad. With two hundred million about to be lost irrevocably when another hundred million could save everything, the other hundred million would surely be voted. \par
\tab Jane-1 was finally built and put on display. Peter Bogert studied it --her--gravely. He said, \ldblquote Why the narrow waist? Surely that introduces a mechanical weakness?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Madarian chuckled. \ldblquote Listen, if we\rquote re going to call her Jane, there\rquote s no point in making her look like Tarzan.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Bogert shook his head. \ldblquote Don\rquote t like it. You\rquote ll be bulging her higher up to give the appearance of breasts next, and that\rquote s a rotten idea. If women start getting the notion that robots may look like women, I can tell you exactly the kind of perverse notions they\rquote ll get, and you\rquote ll \i really \i0 have hostility on their part.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Madarian said, \ldblquote Maybe you\rquote re right at that. No woman wants to feel replaceable by something with none of her faults. Okay.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Jane-2 did not have the pinched waist. She was a somber robot which rarely moved and even more rarely spoke. \par
\tab Madarian had only occasionally come rushing to Bogert with items of news during her construction and that had been a sure sign that things were going poorly. Madarian\rquote s ebullience under success was overpowering. He would not hesitate to invade Bogert\rquote s bedroom at 3 A.M. with a hot-flash item rather than wait for the morning. Bogert was sure of that. \par
\tab Now Madarian seemed subdued, his usually florid expression nearly pale, his round cheeks somehow pinched. Bogert said, with a feeling of certainty, \ldblquote She won\rquote t talk.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, she talks.\rdblquote  Madarian sat down heavily and chewed at his lower lip. \ldblquote Sometimes, anyway,\rdblquote  he said. \par
\tab Bogert rose and circled the robot. \ldblquote And when she talks, she makes no sense, I suppose. Well, if she doesn\rquote t talk, she\rquote s no female, is she?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Madarian tried a weak smile for size and abandoned it. He said, \ldblquote The brain, in isolation, checked out.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I know,\rdblquote  said Bogert. \ldblquote But once that brain was put in charge of the physical apparatus of the robot, it was necessarily modified, of course.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Of course,\rdblquote  agreed Bogert unhelpfully. \ldblquote But unpredictably and frustratingly. The trouble is that when you\rquote re dealing with n-dimensional calculus of uncertainty, things are--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Uncertain?\rdblquote  said Bogert. His own reaction was surprising him. The company investment was already most sizable and almost two years had elapsed, yet the results were, to put it politely, disappointing. Still, he found himself jabbing at Madarian and finding himself amused in the process. \par
\tab Almost furtively, Bogert wondered if it weren\rquote t the absent Susan Calvin he was jabbing at. Madarian was so much more ebullient and effusive than Susan could ever possibly be--when things were going well. He was also far more vulnerably in the dumps when things weren\rquote t going well, and it was precisely under pressure that Susan never cracked. The target that Madarian made could be a neatly punctured bull\rquote s-eye as recompense for the target Susan had never allowed herself to be. \par
\tab Madarian did not react to Bogert\rquote s last remark any more than Susan Calvin would have done; not out of contempt, which would have been Susan\rquote s reaction, but because he did not hear it \par
\tab He said argumentatively, \ldblquote The trouble is the matter of recognition. We have Jane-2 correlating magnificently. She can correlate on any subject, but once she\rquote s done so, she can\rquote t recognize a valuable result from a valueless one. It\rquote s not an easy problem, judging how to program a robot to tell a significant correlation when you don\rquote t know what correlations she will be making.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I presume you\rquote ve thought of lowering the potential at the W-21 diode junction and sparking across the--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No, no, no, no--\rdblquote  Madarian faded off into a whispering diminuendo. \ldblquote You can\rquote t just have it spew out everything. We can do that for ourselves. The point is to have it recognize the crucial correlation and draw the conclusion. Once that is done, you see, a Jane robot would snap out an answer by intuition. It would be something we couldn\rquote t get ourselves except by the oddest kind of luck.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It seems to me,\rdblquote  said Bogert dryly, \ldblquote that if you had a robot like that, you would have her do routinely what, among human beings, only the occasional genius is capable of doing.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Madarian nodded vigorously. \ldblquote Exactly, Peter. I\rquote d have said so myself if I weren\rquote t afraid of frightening off the execs. Please don\rquote t repeat that in their hearing.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Do you really want a robot genius?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What are words? I\rquote m trying to get a robot with the capacity to make random correlations at enormous speeds, together with a key-significance high-recognition quotient. And I\rquote m trying to put \i those \i0 words into positronic field equations. I thought I had it, too, but I don\rquote t. Not yet.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He looked at Jane-2 discontentedly and said, \ldblquote What\rquote s the best significance you have, Jane?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Jane-2\rquote s head turned to look at Madarian but she made no sound, and Madarian whispered with resignation, \ldblquote She\rquote s running that into the correlation banks.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Jane-2 spoke tonelessly at last. \ldblquote I\rquote m not sure.\rdblquote  It was the first sound she had made. \par
\tab Madarian\rquote s eyes rolled upward. \ldblquote She\rquote s doing the equivalent of setting up equations with indeterminate solutions.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I gathered that,\rdblquote  said Bogert. \ldblquote Listen, Madarian, can you go anywhere at this point, or do we pull out now and cut our losses at half a billion?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, I\rquote ll get it, \ldblquote  muttered Madarian. \par
\tab Jane-3 wasn\rquote t it. She was never as much as activated and Madarian was in a rage. \par
\tab It was human error. His own fault, if one wanted to be entirely accurate. Yet though Madarian was utterly humiliated, others remained quiet. Let he who has never made an error in the fearsomely intricate mathematics of the positronic brain fill out the first memo of correction. \par
\tab Nearly a year passed before Jane-4 was ready. Madarian was ebullient again. \ldblquote She does it,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote She\rquote s got a good high-recognition quotient.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He was confident enough to place her on display before the Board and have her solve problems. Not mathematical problems; any robot could do that; but problems where the terms were deliberately misleading without being actually inaccurate. \par
\tab Bogert said afterward, \ldblquote That doesn\rquote t take much, really.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Of course not. It\rquote s elementary for Jane-4 but I had to show them something, didn\rquote t I?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Do you know how much we\rquote ve spent so far?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Come on, Peter, don\rquote t give me that. Do you know how much we\rquote ve got back? These things don\rquote t go on in a vacuum, you know. I\rquote ve had over three years of hell over this, if you want to know, but I\rquote ve worked out new techniques of calculation that will save us a minimum of fifty thousand dollars on every new type of positronic brain we design, from now on in forever. Right?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well me no wells. It\rquote s so. And it\rquote s my personal feeling that n-dimensional calculus of uncertainty can have any number of other applications if we have the ingenuity to find them, and my Jane robots \i will \i0 find them. Once I\rquote ve got exactly what I want, the new JN series will pay for itself inside of five years, even if we triple what we\rquote ve invested so far.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What do you mean by \lquote exactly what you want\rquote ? What\rquote s wrong with Jane-4?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Nothing. Or nothing much. She\rquote s on the track, but she can be improved and I intend to do so. I thought I knew where I was going when I designed her. Now I\rquote ve tested her and I \i know \i0 where I\rquote m going. I intend to get there.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\tab Jane-5 was it. It took Madarian well over a year to produce her and there he had no reservations; he was utterly confident. \par
\tab Jane-5 was shorter than the average robot, slimmer. Without being a female caricature as Jane-1 had been, she managed to possess an air of femininity about herself despite the absence of a single clearly feminine feature. \par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s the way she\rquote s standing,\rdblquote  said Bogert. Her arms were held gracefully and somehow the torso managed to give the impression of curving slightly when she turned. \par
\tab Madarian said, \ldblquote Listen to her....How do you feel, Jane?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote In excellent health, thank you,\rdblquote  said Jane-5, and the voice was precisely that of a woman; it was a sweet and almost disturbing contralto. \par
\tab\ldblquote Why did you do that, Clinton?\rdblquote  said Peter, startled and beginning to frown. \par
\tab\ldblquote Psychologically important,\rdblquote  said Madarian. \ldblquote I want people to think of her as a woman; to treat her as a woman; to \i explain.\rdblquote  \par
\i0\tab\ldblquote What people?\rdblquote  Madarian put his hands in his pockets and stared thoughtfully at Bogert. \ldblquote I would like to have arrangements made for Jane and myself to go to flagstaff.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Bogert couldn\rquote t help but note that Madarian didn\rquote t say Jane-5. He made use of no number this time. She was \i the \i0 Jane. He said doubtfully, \ldblquote To flagstaff? Why?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Because that\rquote s the world center for general planetology, isn\rquote t it? It\rquote s where they\rquote re studying the stars and trying to calculate the probability of habitable planets, isn\rquote t it?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I know that, but it\rquote s on Earth.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, and I surely know that.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Robotic movements on Earth are strictly controlled. And there\rquote s no need for it. Bring a library of books on general planetology here and let Jane absorb them.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No! Peter, will you get it through your head that Jane isn\rquote t the ordinary logical robot; she\rquote s intuitive.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote So?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote So how can we tell what she needs, what she can use, what will set her off? We can use any metal model in the factory to read books; that\rquote s frozen data and out of date besides. Jane must have living information; she must have tones of voice, she must have side issues; she must have total irrelevancies even. How the devil do we know what or when something will go click-click inside her and fall into a pattern? If we knew, we wouldn\rquote t need her at all, would we?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Bogert began to feel harassed. He said, \ldblquote Then bring the men here, the general planetologists.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Here won\rquote t be any good. They\rquote ll be out of their element. They won\rquote t react naturally. I want Jane to watch them at work; I want her to see their instruments, their offices, their desks, everything about them that she can. I want you to arrange to have her transported to flagstaff. And I\rquote d really like not to discuss it any further.\rdblquote  \par
\tab For a moment he almost sounded like Susan. Bogert winced, and said, \ldblquote It\rquote s complicated making such an arrangement. Transporting an experimental robot--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Jane isn\rquote t experimental. She\rquote s the fifth of the series.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The other four weren\rquote t really working models.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Madarian lifted his hands in helpless frustration. \ldblquote Who\rquote s forcing you to tell the government that?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m not worried about the government. It can be made to understand special cases. It\rquote s public opinion. We\rquote ve come a long way in fifty years and I don\rquote t propose to be set back twenty-five of them by having you lose control of a--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I won\rquote t lose control. You\rquote re making foolish remarks. Look! U. S. Robots can afford a private plane. We can land quietly at the nearest commercial airport and be lost in hundreds of similar landings. We can arrange to have a large ground car with an enclosed body meet us and take us to Flagstaff. Jane will be crated and it will be obvious that some piece of thoroughly non-robotic equipment is being transported to the labs. We won\rquote t get a second look from anyone. The men at Flagstaff will be alerted and will be told the exact purpose of the visit. They will have every motive to cooperate and to prevent a leak.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Bogert pondered. \ldblquote The risky part will be the plane and the ground car. If anything happens to the crate--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Nothing will.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We might get away with it if Jane is deactivated during transport. Then even if someone finds out she\rquote s inside--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No, Peter. That can\rquote t be done. Uh-uh. Not Jane-5. Look, she\rquote s been free-associating since she was activated. The information she possesses can be put into freeze during deactivation but the free associations never. No, sir, she can\rquote t ever be deactivated.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But, then, if somehow it is discovered that we are transporting an activated robot--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It won\rquote t be found out.\rdblquote  Madarian remained firm and the plane eventually took off. It was a late-model automatic Computo-jet, but it carried a human pilot--one of U. S. Robots\rquote  own employees--as backup. The crate containing Jane arrived at the airport safely, was transferred to the ground car, and reached the Research Laboratories at Flagstaff without incident. \par
\tab Peter Bogert received his first call from Madarian not more than an hour after the latter\rquote s arrival at Flagstaff. Madarian was ecstatic and, characteristically, could not wait to report. \par
\tab The message arrived by tubed laser beam, shielded, scrambled, and ordinarily impenetrable, but Bogert felt exasperated. He knew it could be penetrated if someone with enough technological ability--the government, for example--was determined to do so. The only real safety lay in the fact that the government had no reason to try. At least Bogert hoped so. \par
\tab He said, \ldblquote For God\rquote s sake, do you have to call?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Madarian ignored him entirely. He burbled, \ldblquote It was an inspiration. Sheer genius, I tell you.\rdblquote  \par
\tab For a while, Bogert stared at the receiver. Then he shouted incredulously, \ldblquote You mean you\rquote ve got the answer? Already?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No, no! Give us time, damn it. I mean the matter of her voice was an inspiration. Listen, after we were chauffeured from the airport to the main administration building at Flagstaff, we uncrated Jane and she stepped out of the box. When that happened, every man in the place stepped back. Scared! Nitwits! If even scientists can\rquote t understand the significance of the Laws of Robotics, what can we expect of the average untrained individual? For a minute there I thought: This will all be useless. They won\rquote t talk. They\rquote ll be keying themselves for a quick break in case she goes berserk and they\rquote ll be able to think of nothing else.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well, then, what are you getting at?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote So then she greeted them routinely. She said, \lquote Good afternoon, gentlemen. I am so glad to meet you.\rquote  And it came out in this beautiful contralto....That was it. One man straightened his tie, and another ran his fingers through his hair. What really got me was that the oldest guy in the place actually checked his fly to make sure it was zipped. They\rquote re all crazy about her now. All they needed was the voice. She isn\rquote t a robot any more; she\rquote s a girl.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You mean they\rquote re talking to her?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote\i Are \i0 they talking to her! I should say so. I should have programmed her for sexy intonations. They\rquote d be asking her for dates right now if I had. Talk about conditioned reflex. Listen, men respond to voices. At the most intimate moments, are they looking? It\rquote s the voice in your ear--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, Clinton, I seem to remember. Where\rquote s Jane now?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote With them. They won\rquote t let go of her.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Damn! Get in there with her. Don\rquote t let her out of your sight, man.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Madarian\rquote s calls thereafter, during his ten-day stay at Flagstaff, were not very frequent and became progressively less exalted. \par
\tab Jane was listening carefully, he reported, and occasionally she responded. She remained popular. She was given entry everywhere. But there were no results. \par
\tab Bogert said, \ldblquote Nothing at all?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Madarian was at once defensive. \ldblquote You can\rquote t say nothing at all. It\rquote s impossible to say nothing at all with an intuitive robot. You don\rquote t know what might not be going on inside her. This morning she asked Jensen what he had for breakfast.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Rossiter Jensen the astrophysicist?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, of course. As it turned out, he didn\rquote t have breakfast that morning. Well, a cup of coffee.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote So Jane\rquote s learning to make small talk. That scarcely makes up for the expense.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, don\rquote t be a jackass. It wasn\rquote t small talk. Nothing is small talk for Jane. She asked because it had something to do with some sort of cross-correlation she was building in her mind.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What can it possibly--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote How do I know? If I knew, I\rquote d be a Jane myself and you wouldn\rquote t need her. But it has to mean something. She\rquote s programmed for high motivation to obtain an answer to the question of a planet with optimum habitability/distance and--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Then let me know when she\rquote s done that and not before. It\rquote s not really necessary for me to get a blow-by-blow description of possible correlations.\rdblquote  \par
\tab He didn\rquote t really expect to get notification of success. With each day, Bogert grew less sanguine, so that when the notification finally came, he wasn\rquote t ready. And it came at the very end. \par
\tab That last time, when Madarian\rquote s climactic message came, it came in what was almost a whisper. Exaltation had come complete circle and Madarian was awed into quiet. \par
\tab\ldblquote She did it,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote She did it. After I all but gave up, too. After she had received everything in the place and most of it twice and three times over and never said a word that sounded like anything....I\rquote m on the plane now, returning. We\rquote ve just taken off.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Bogert managed to get his breath. \ldblquote Don\rquote t play games, man. You have the \i answer? \i0 Say so, if you have. Say it plainly.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote She has the answer. She\rquote s given me the answer. She\rquote s given me the names of three stars within eighty light-years which, she says, have a sixty to ninety percent chance of possessing one habitable planet each. The probability that at least one has is 0.972. It\rquote s almost certain. And that\rquote s just the least of it. Once we get back, she can give us the exact line of reasoning that led her to the conclusion and I predict that the whole science of astrophysics and cosmology will--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Are you sure--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You think I\rquote m having hallucinations? I even have a witness. Poor guy jumped two feet when Jane suddenly began to reel out the answer in her gorgeous voice\rdblquote  \par
\tab And that was when the meteorite struck and in the thorough destruction of the plane that followed, Madarian and the pilot were reduced to gobbets of bloody flesh and no usable remnant of Jane was recovered. \par
\par
\tab The gloom at U. S. Robots had never been deeper. Robertson attempted to find consolation in the fact that the very completeness of the destruction had utterly hidden the illegalities of which the firm had been guilty. \par
\tab Peter shook his head and mourned. \ldblquote We\rquote ve lost the best chance U. S. Robots ever had of gaining an unbeatable public image; of overcoming the damned Frankenstein complex. What it would have meant for robots to have one of them work out the solution to the habitable-planet problem, after other robots had helped work out the Space Jump. Robots would have opened the galaxy to us. And if at the same time we could have driven scientific knowledge forward in a dozen different directions as we surely would have...Oh, God, there\rquote s no way of calculating the benefits to the human race, and to us of course.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Robertson said, \ldblquote We could build other Janes, couldn\rquote t we? Even without Madarian?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Sure we could. But can we depend on the proper correlation again? Who knows how low--probability that final result was? What if Madarian had had a fantastic piece of beginner\rquote s luck? And then to have an even more fantastic piece of bad luck? A meteorite zeroing in...It\rquote s simply unbelievable--\rdblquote  \par
\tab Robertson said in a hesitating whisper, \ldblquote It couldn\rquote t have been meant. I mean, if we weren\rquote t meant to know and if the meteorite was a judgment--from--\rdblquote  \par
\tab He faded off under Bogert\rquote s withering glare. Bogert said, \ldblquote It\rquote s not a dead loss, I suppose. Other Janes are bound to help us in some ways. And we can give other robots feminine voices, if that will help encourage public acceptance--though I wonder what the women would say. If we only knew what Jane-5 had said!\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote In that last call, Madarian said there was a witness.\rdblquote  Bogert said, \ldblquote I know; I\rquote ve been thinking about that. Don\rquote t you suppose I\rquote ve been in touch with flagstaff? Nobody in the entire place heard Jane say anything that was out of the ordinary, anything that sounded like an answer to the habitable-planet problem, and certainly anyone there should have recognized the answer if it came --or at least recognized it as a possible answer.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Could Madarian have been lying? Or crazy? Could he have been trying to protect himself--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You mean he may have been trying to save his reputation by pretending he had the answer and then gimmick Jane so she couldn\rquote t talk and say, \lquote Oh, sorry, something happened accidentally. Oh, darn!\rquote  I won\rquote t accept that for a minute. You might as well suppose he had arranged the meteorite.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Then what do we do?\rdblquote  Bogert said heavily, \ldblquote Turn back to flagstaff. The answer \i must \i0 be there. I\rquote ve got to dig deeper, that\rquote s all. I\rquote m going there and I\rquote m taking a couple of the men in Madarian\rquote s department. We\rquote ve got to go through that place top to bottom and end to end.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But, you know, even if there were a witness and he had heard, what good would it do, now that we don\rquote t have Jane to explain the process?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Every little something is useful. Jane gave the names of the stars; the catalogue numbers probably--none of the named stars has a chance. If\b  \b0 someone can remember her saying that and actually remember the catalogue number, or have heard it clearly enough to allow it to be recovered by Psycho-probe if he lacked the conscious memory--then we\rquote ll have something. Given the results at the end, and the data fed Jane at the beginning, we might be able to reconstruct the line of reasoning; we might recover the intuition. If\b  \b0 that is done, we\rquote ve saved the game--\rdblquote  \par
\tab Bogert was back after three days, silent and thoroughly depressed. When Robertson inquired anxiously as to results, he shook his head. \ldblquote Nothing!\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Nothing?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Absolutely nothing. I spoke with every man in flagstaff--every scientist, every technician, every student--that had had anything to do with Jane; everyone that had as much as seen her. The number wasn\rquote t great; I\rquote ll give Madarian credit for that much discretion. He only allowed those to see her who might conceivably have had planetological knowledge to feed her. There were twenty-three men altogether who had seen Jane and of those only twelve had spoken to her more than casually. \par
\tab\ldblquote I went over and over all that Jane had said. They remembered everything quite well. They\rquote re keen men engaged in a crucial experiment involving their specialty, so they had every motivation to remember. And they were dealing with a talking robot, something that was startling enough, and one that talked like a TV actress. They couldn\rquote t forget.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Robertson said, \ldblquote Maybe a Psycho-probe--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote If one of them had the vaguest thought that something had happened, I would screw out his consent to Probing. But there\rquote s nothing to leave room for an excuse, and to Probe two dozen men who make their living from their brains can\rquote t be done. Honestly, it wouldn\rquote t help. If Jane had mentioned three stars and said they had habitable planets, it would have been like setting up sky rockets in their brains. How could anyone of them forget?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Then maybe one of them is lying,\rdblquote  said Robertson grimly. \ldblquote He wants the information for his own use; to get the credit himself later.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What good would that do him?\rdblquote  said Bogert. \ldblquote The whole establishment knows exactly why Madarian and Jane were there in the first place. They know why I came there in the second. If at any time in the future any man now at Flagstaff suddenly comes up with a habitable-planet theory that is startlingly new and different, yet valid, every other man at Flagstaff and every man at U. S. Robots will know at once that he had stolen it. He\rquote d never get away with it.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Then Madarian himself was somehow mistaken.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t see how I can believe that either. Madarian had an irritating personality--all robopsychologists have irritating personalities, I think, which must be why they work with robots rather than with men--but he was no dummy. He \i couldn\rquote t \i0 be wrong in something like this.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Then--\rdblquote  But Robertson had run out of possibilities. They had reached a blank wall and for some minutes each stared at it disconsolately. \par
\tab Finally Robertson stirred. \ldblquote Peter--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Let\rquote s ask Susan.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Bogert stiffened. \ldblquote What!\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Let\rquote s ask Susan. Let\rquote s call her and ask her to come in.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why? What can she possibly do?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t know. But she\rquote s a robopsychologist, too, and she might understand Madarian better than we do. Besides, she--Oh, hell, she always had more brains than any of us.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote She\rquote s nearly eighty.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And you\rquote re seventy. What about it?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Bogert sighed. Had her abrasive tongue lost any of its rasp in the years of her retirement? He said, \ldblquote Well, I\rquote ll ask her.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Susan Calvin entered Bogert\rquote s office with a slow look around before her eyes fixed themselves on the Research Director. She had aged a great deal since her retirement. Her hair was a fine white and her face seemed to have crumpled. She had grown so frail as to be almost transparent and only her eyes, piercing and uncompromising, seemed to remain of all that had been. \par
\tab Bogert strode forward heartily, holding out his hand. \ldblquote Susan!\rdblquote  \par
\tab Susan Calvin took it, and said, \ldblquote You\rquote re looking reasonably well, Peter, for an old man. If I were you, I wouldn\rquote t wait till next year. Retire now and let the young men get to it....And Madarian is dead. Are you calling me in to take over my old job? Are you determined to keep the ancients till a year past actual physical death?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No, no, Susan. I\rquote ve called you in--\rdblquote  He stopped. He did not, after all, have the faintest idea of how to start. \par
\tab But Susan read his mind now as easily as she always had. She seated herself with the caution born of stiffened joints and said, \ldblquote Peter, you\rquote ve called me in because you\rquote re in bad trouble. Otherwise you\rquote d sooner see me dead than within a mile of you.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Come, Susan--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Don\rquote t waste time on pretty talk. I never had time to waste when I was forty and certainly not now. Madarian\rquote s death and your call to me are both unusual, so there must be a connection. Two unusual events without a connection is too low-probability to worry about. Begin at the beginning and don\rquote t worry about revealing yourself to be a fool. That was revealed to me long ago.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Bogert cleared his throat miserably and began. She listened carefully, her withered hand lifting once in a while to stop him so that she might ask a question. \par
\tab She snorted at one point. \ldblquote Feminine intuition? Is that what you wanted the robot for? You men. Faced with a woman reaching a correct conclusion and unable to accept the fact that she is your equal or superior in intelligence, you invent something called feminine intuition.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, yes, Susan, but let me continue--\rdblquote  \par
\tab He did. When she was told of Jane\rquote s contralto voice, she said, \ldblquote It is a difficult choice sometimes whether to feel revolted at the male sex or merely to dismiss them as contemptible.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Bogert said, \ldblquote Well, let me go on--\rdblquote  \par
\tab When he was quite done, Susan said, \ldblquote May I have the private use of this office for an hour or two?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, but--\rdblquote  \par
\tab She said, \ldblquote I want to go over the various records--Jane\rquote s programming, Madarian\rquote s calls, your interviews at flagstaff. I presume I can use that beautiful new shielded laser-phone and your computer outlet if I wish.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, of course.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well, then, get out of here, Peter.\rdblquote  \par
\tab It was not quite forty-five minutes when she hobbled to the door, opened it, and called for Bogert. \par
\tab When Bogert came, Robertson was with him. Both entered and Susan greeted the latter with an unenthusiastic \ldblquote Hello, Scott.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Bogert tried desperately to gauge the results from Susan\rquote s face, but it was only the face of a grim old lady who had no intention of making anything easy for him. \par
\tab He said cautiously, \ldblquote Do you think there\rquote s anything you can do, Susan?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Beyond what I have already done? No! There\rquote s nothing more.\rdblquote  Bogert\rquote s lips set in chagrin, but Robertson said, \ldblquote What have you already done, Susan?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Susan said, \ldblquote I\rquote ve thought a little; something I can\rquote t seem to persuade anyone else to do. For one thing, I\rquote ve thought about Madarian. I knew him, you know. He had brains but he was a very irritating extrovert. I thought you would like him after me, Peter.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It was a change,\rdblquote  Bogert couldn\rquote t resist saying. \par
\tab\ldblquote And he was always running to you with results the very minute he had them, wasn\rquote t he?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, he was.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And yet,\rdblquote  said Susan, \ldblquote his last message, the one in which he said Jane had given him the answer, was sent from the plane. Why did he wait so long? Why didn\rquote t he call you while he was still at flagstaff, immediately after Jane had said whatever it was she said?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I suppose,\rdblquote  said Peter, \ldblquote that for once he wanted to check it thoroughly and--well, I don\rquote t know. It was the most important thing that had ever happened to him; he might for once have wanted to wait and be sure of himself.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote On the contrary; the more important it was, the less he would wait, surely. And if he could manage to wait, why not do it properly and wait till he was back at U. S. Robots so that he could check the results with all the computing equipment this firm could make available to him? In short, he waited too long from one point of view and not long enough from another.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Robertson interrupted. \ldblquote Then you think he was up to some trickery--\rdblquote  \par
\tab Susan looked revolted. \ldblquote Scott, don\rquote t try to compete with Peter in making inane remarks. Let me continue....A second point concerns the witness. According to the records of that last call, Madarian said, \lquote Poor guy jumped two feet when Jane suddenly began to reel out the answer in her gorgeous voice.\rquote  In fact, it was the last thing he said. And the question is, then, why should the witness have jumped? Madarian had explained that all the men were crazy about that voice, and they had had ten days with the robot--with Jane. Why should the mere act of her speaking have startled them?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Bogert said, \ldblquote I assumed it was astonishment at hearing Jane give an answer to a problem that has occupied the minds of planetologists for nearly a century.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But they were \i waiting \i0 for her to give that answer. That was why she was there. Besides, consider the way the sentence is worded. Madarian\rquote s statement makes it seem the witness was startled, not astonished, if you see the difference. What\rquote s more, that reaction came \lquote when Jane suddenly began\rquote --in other words, at the very start of the statement. To be astonished at the content of what Jane said would have required the witness to have listened awhile so that he might absorb it. Madarian would have said he had jumped two feet \i after \i0 he had heard Jane say thus-and-so. It would be \lquote after\rquote  not \lquote when\rquote  and the word \lquote suddenly\rquote  would not be included.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Bogert said uneasily, \ldblquote I don\rquote t think you can refine matters down to the use or non-use of a word.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I can,\rdblquote  said Susan frostily, \ldblquote because I am a robopsychologist. And I can expect Madarian to do so, too, because \i he \i0 was a robopsychologist. We have to explain those two anomalies, then. The queer delay before Madarian\rquote s call and the queer reaction of the witness.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Can \i you \i0 explain them?\rdblquote  Asked Robertson. \ldblquote Of course,\rdblquote  said Susan, \ldblquote since I use a little simple logic. Madarian called with the news without delay, as he always did, or with as little delay as he could manage. If Jane had solved the problem at Flagstaff, he would certainly have called from Flagstaff. Since he called from the plane, she must clearly have solved the problem after he had left Flagstaff.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But then--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Let me finish. Let me finish. Was Madarian not taken from the airport to Flagstaff in a heavy, enclosed ground car? And Jane, in her crate, with him?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And presumably, Madarian and the crated Jane returned from Flagstaff to the airport in the same heavy, enclosed ground car. Am I right?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, of course!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And they were not alone in the ground car, either. In one of his calls, Madarian said, \lquote We were chauffeured from the airport to the main administration building,\rquote  and I suppose I am right in concluding that if he was chauffeured, then that was because there was a chauffeur, a human driver, in the car.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Good God!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The trouble with you, Peter, is that when you think of a witness to a planetological statement, you think of planetologists. You divide up human beings into categories, and despise and dismiss most. A robot cannot do that. The First Law says, \lquote A robot may not injure a \i human being \i0 or, through inaction, allow a \i human being \i0 to come to harm.\rquote  \i Any \i0 human being. That is the essence of the robotic view of life. A robot makes no distinction. To a robot, all men are truly equal, and to a robopsychologist who must perforce deal with men at the robotic level, all men are truly equal, too. \par
\tab\ldblquote It would not occur to Madarian to say a truck driver had heard the statement. To you a truck driver is not a scientist but is a mere animate adjunct of a truck, but to Madarian he was a man and a witness. Nothing more. Nothing less.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Bogert shook his head in disbelief. \ldblquote But you are \i sure?\rdblquote\par
\i0\tab\ldblquote Of course I\rquote m sure. How else can you explain the other point; Madarian\rquote s remark about the startling of the witness? Jane was crated, wasn\rquote t she? But she was \i not\i0  deactivated. According to the records, Madarian was always adamant against ever deactivating an intuitive robot. Moreover, Jane-5, like any of the Janes, was extremely non-talkative. Probably it never occurred to Madarian to order her to remain quiet within the crate; and it was within the crate that the pattern finally fell into place. Naturally she began to talk. A beautiful contralto voice suddenly sounded from inside the crate. If you were the truck driver, what would you do at that point? Surely you\rquote d be startled. It\rquote s a wonder he didn\rquote t crash.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But if the truck driver was the witness, why didn\rquote t he come forward--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why? Can he possibly know that anything crucial had happened, that what he heard was important? Besides, don\rquote t you suppose Madarian tipped him well and asked him not to say anything? Would you \i want \i0 the news to spread that an activated robot was being transported illegally over the Earth\rquote s surface.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well, will he remember what was said?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why not? It might seem to you, Peter, that a truck driver, one step above an ape in your view, can\rquote t remember. But truck drivers can have brains, too. The statements were most remarkable and the driver may well have remembered some. Even if he gets some of the letters and numbers wrong, we\rquote re dealing with a finite set, you know, the fifty-five hundred stars or star systems within eighty light-years or so--I haven\rquote t looked up the exact number. You can make the correct choices. And if needed, you will have every excuse to use the Psycho-probe--\rdblquote  \par
\tab The two men stared at her. Finally Bogert, afraid to believe, whispered, \ldblquote But how can you be \i sure?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\i0 For a moment, Susan was on the point of saying: Because I\rquote ve called Flagstaff, you fool, and because I spoke to the truck driver, and because he told me what he had heard, and because I\rquote ve checked with the computer at Flagstaff and got the only three stars that fit the information, and because I have those names in my pocket. \par
\tab But she didn\rquote t. Let him go through it all himself. Carefully, she rose to her feet, and said sardonically, \ldblquote How can I be sure?...Call it feminine intuition.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\b\i\f2\fs28\page Two Climaxes \par
\pard\b0\f0\fs20\par
\tab\i0 Each of these two stories is post-Susan Calvin. They are the most recent long stories I have written about robots and in each one I try to take the long view and see what the ultimate end of robotics might be. And I come full circle--for though I adhere strictly to the Three Laws, the first story, \ldblquote ...That Thou Art Mindful of Him,\rdblquote  is clearly a Robot-as-Menace story, while the second, \ldblquote The Bicentennial Man,\rdblquote  is even more clearly a Robot-as-Pathos story. \par
\tab Of all the robot stories I ever wrote, \ldblquote The Bicentennial Man\rdblquote  is my favorite and, I think, the best. In fact, I have a dreadful feeling that I might not care to top it and will never write another serious robot story. But then again, I might. I\rquote m not always predictable. \par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page ...That Thou Art Mindful of Him \par
\pard\b0\i\f0\fs20\par
The Three Laws \i0 of \i Robotics: \par
1. A robot may not injure a human being or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm. \par
2. A robot must obey the orders given it by human beings except where such orders would conflict with the First Law. \par
\i0 3. A robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Law.\par
\par
1.\par
\par
\tab Keith Harriman, who had for twelve years now been Director of Research at United States Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation, found that he was not at all certain whether he was doing right. The tip of his tongue passed over his plump but rather pale lips and it seemed to him that the holographic image of the great Susan Calvin, which stared unsmilingly down upon him, had never looked so grim before. \par
\tab Usually he blanked out that image of the greatest roboticist in history because she unnerved him. (He tried thinking of the image as \ldblquote it\rdblquote  but never quite succeeded.) This time he didn\rquote t quite dare to and her long-dead gaze bored into the side of his face. \par
\tab It was a dreadful and demeaning step he would have to take. Opposite him was George Ten, calm and unaffected either by \par
\tab Harriman\rquote s patent uneasiness or by the image of the patron saint of robotics glowing in its niche above. \par
\tab Harriman said, \ldblquote We haven\rquote t had a chance to talk this out, really, George. You haven\rquote t been with us that long and I haven\rquote t had a good chance to be alone with you. But now I would like to discuss the matter in some detail.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I am perfectly willing to do that, \ldblquote  said George. \ldblquote In my stay at U. S. Robots, I have gathered the crisis has something to do with the Three Laws.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes. You know the Three Laws, of course.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I do.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, I\rquote m sure you do. But let us dig even deeper and consider the truly basic problem. In two centuries of, if I may say so, considerable success, U. S. Robots has never managed to persuade human beings to accept robots. We have placed robots only where work is required that human beings cannot do, or in environments that human beings find unacceptably dangerous. Robots have worked mainly in space and that has limited what we have been able to do.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Surely,\rdblquote  said George Ten, \ldblquote that represents a broad limit, and one within which U. S. Robots can prosper.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No, for two reasons. In the first place, the boundaries set for us inevitably contract. As the Moon colony, for instance, grows more sophisticated, its demand for robots decreases and we expect that, within the next few years, robots will be banned on the Moon. This will be repeated on every world colonized by mankind. Secondly, true prosperity is impossible without robots on Earth. We at U. S. Robots firmly believe that human beings need robots and must learn to live with their mechanical analogues if progress is to be maintained.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Do they not? Mr. Harriman, you have on your desk a computer input which, I understand, is connected with the organization\rquote s Multivac. A computer is a kind of sessile robot; a robot brain not attached to a body--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote True, but that also is limited. The computers used by mankind have been steadily specialized in order to avoid too humanlike an intelligence. A century ago we were well on the way to artificial intelligence of the most unlimited type through the use of great computers we called Machines. Those Machines limited their action of their own accord. Once they had solved the ecological problems that had threatened human society, they phased themselves out. Their own continued existence would, they reasoned, have placed them in the role of a crutch to mankind and, since they felt this would harm human beings, they condemned themselves by the First Law.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And were they not correct to do so?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote In my opinion, no. By their action, they reinforced mankind\rquote s Frankenstein complex; its gut fears that any artificial man they created would turn upon its creator. Men fear that robots may replace human beings.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Do you not fear that yourself?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I know better. As long as the Three Laws of Robotics exist, they cannot. They can serve as \i partners \i0 of mankind; they can share in the great struggle to understand and wisely direct the laws of nature so that together they can do more than mankind can possibly do alone; but always in such a way that robots serve human beings.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But if the Three Laws have shown themselves, over the course of two centuries, to keep robots within bounds, what is the source of the distrust of human beings for robots?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well\rdblquote --and Harriman\rquote s graying hair tufted as he scratched his head vigorously--\rdblquote mostly superstition, of course. Unfortunately, there are also some complexities involved that anti-robot agitators seize upon.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Involving the Three Laws?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes. The Second Law in particular. There\rquote s no problem in the Third Law, you see. It is universal. Robots must always sacrifice themselves for human beings, any human beings.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Of course,\rdblquote  said George Ten. \par
\tab\ldblquote The First Law is perhaps less satisfactory, since it is always possible to imagine a condition in which a robot must perform either Action A or Action B, the two being mutually exclusive, and where either action results in harm to human beings. The robot must therefore quickly select which action results in the least harm. To work out the positronic paths of the robot brain in such a way as to make that selection possible is not easy. If Action A results in harm to a talented young artist and B results in equivalent harm to five elderly people of no particular worth, which action should be chosen.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Action A, \ldblquote  said George Ten. \ldblquote Harm to one is less than harm to five.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, so robots have always been designed to decide. To expect robots to make judgments of fine points such as talent, intelligence, the general usefulness to society, has always seemed impractical. That would delay decision to the point where the robot is effectively immobilized. So we go by numbers. Fortunately, we might expect crises in which robots must make such decisions to be few....But then that brings us to the Second Law.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The Law of Obedience.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes. The necessity of obedience is constant. A robot may exist for twenty years without every having to act quickly to prevent harm to a human being, or find itself faced with the necessity of risking its own destruction. In all that time, however, it will be constantly obeying orders....Whose orders?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Those of a human being.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Any human being? How do you judge a human being so as to know whether to obey or not? What is man, that thou art mindful of him, George?\rdblquote  \par
\tab George hesitated at that. \par
\tab Harriman said hurriedly, \ldblquote A Biblical quotation. That doesn\rquote t matter. I mean, must a robot follow the orders of a child; or of an idiot; or of a criminal; or of a perfectly decent intelligent man who happens to be inexpert and therefore ignorant of the undesirable consequences of his order? And if two human beings give a robot conflicting orders, which does the robot follow?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote In two hundred years,\rdblquote  said George Ten, \ldblquote have not these problems arisen and been solved?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  said Harriman, shaking his head violently. \ldblquote We have been hampered by the very fact that our robots have been used only in specialized environments out in space, where the men who dealt with them were experts in their field. There were no children, no idiots, no criminals, no well-meaning ignoramuses present. Even so, there were occasions when damage was done by foolish or merely unthinking orders. Such damage in specialized and limited environments could be contained. On Earth, however, robots \i must \i0 have judgment. So those against robots maintain, and, damn it, they are right.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Then you must insert the capacity for judgment into the positronic brain.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Exactly. We have begun to reproduce JG models in which the robot can weigh every human being with regard to sex, age, social and professional position, intelligence, maturity, social responsibility and so on.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote How would that affect the Three Laws?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The Third Law not at all. Even the most valuable robot must destroy himself for the sake of the most useless human being. That cannot be tampered with. The First Law is affected only where alternative actions will all do harm. The quality of the human beings involved as well as the quantity must be considered, provided there is time for such judgment and the basis for it, which will not be often. The Second Law will be most deeply modified, since every potential obedience must involve judgment. The robot will be slower to obey, except where the First Law is also involved, but it will obey more rationally.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But the judgments which are required are very complicated.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote\i Very. \i0 The necessity of making such judgments slowed the reactions of our first couple of models to the point of paralysis. We improved matters in the later models at the cost of introducing so many pathways that the robot\rquote s brain became far too unwieldy. In our last couple of models, however, I think we have what we want. The robot doesn\rquote t have to make an instant judgment of the worth of a human being and the value of its orders. It begins by obeying all human beings as any ordinary robot would and then it \i learns. \i0 A robot grows, learns and matures. It is the equivalent of a child at first and must be under constant supervision. As it grows, however, it can, more and more, be allowed, unsupervised, into Earth\rquote s society. Finally, it is a full member of that society.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Surely this answers the objections of those who oppose robots.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  said Harriman angrily. \ldblquote Now they raise others. They will not accept judgments. A robot, they say, has no right to brand this person or that as inferior. By accepting the orders of A in preference to that of B, B is branded as of less consequence than A and his human rights are violated.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What is the answer to that?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote There is none. I am giving up.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I see.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote As far as I myself am concerned....Instead, I turn to you, George.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote To me?\rdblquote  George Ten\rquote s voice remained level. There was a mild surprise in it but it did not affect him outwardly. \ldblquote Why to me?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Because you are not a man,\rdblquote  said Harriman tensely. \ldblquote I told you I want robots to be the partners of human beings. I want you to be mine.\rdblquote  \par
\tab George Ten raised his hands and spread them, palms outward, in an oddly human gesture. \ldblquote What can I do?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It seems to you, perhaps, that you can do nothing, George. You were created not long ago, and you are still a child. You were designed to be not overfull of original information--it was why I have had to explain the situation to you in such detail--in order to leave room for growth. But you will grow in mind and you will come to be able to approach the problem from a non-human standpoint. Where I see no solution, you, from your own other standpoint, may see one.\rdblquote  \par
\tab George Ten said, \ldblquote My brain is man-designed. In what way can it be non-human?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You are the latest of the JG models, George. Your brain is the most complicated we have yet designed, in some ways more subtly complicated than that of the old giant Machines. It is open-ended and, starting on a human basis, may--no, \i will--\i0 grow in any direction. Remaining always within the insurmountable boundaries of the Three Laws, you may yet become thoroughly non-human in your thinking.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Do I know enough about human beings to approach this problem rationally? About their history? Their psychology?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Of course not. But you will learn as rapidly as you can.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Will I have help, Mr. Harriman?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No. This is entirely between ourselves. No one else knows of this and you must not mention this project to any human being, either at U. S. Robots or elsewhere.\rdblquote  \par
\tab George Ten said, \ldblquote Are we doing wrong, Mr. Harriman, that you seek to keep the matter secret?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No. But a robot solution will not be accepted, precisely because it is robot in origin. Any suggested solution you have you will turn over to me; and if it seems valuable to me, I will present it. No one will ever know it came from you.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote In the light of what you have said earlier,\rdblquote  said George Ten calmly, \ldblquote this is the correct procedure....When do I start?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Right now. I will see to it that you have all the necessary films for scanning.\rdblquote  \par
\par
1a.\par
\par
\tab Harriman sat alone. In the artificially lit interior of his office, there was no indication that it had grown dark outside. He had no real sense that three hours had passed since he had taken George Ten back to his cubicle and left him there with the first film references. \par
\tab He was now merely alone with the ghost of Susan Calvin, the brilliant roboticist who had, virtually single-handed, built up the positronic robot from a massive toy to man\rquote s most delicate and versatile instrument; so delicate and versatile that man dared not use it, out of envy and fear. \par
\tab It was over a century now since she had died. The problem of the Frankenstein complex had existed in \i her \i0 time, and she had never solved it. She had never tried to solve it, for there had been no need. Robotics had expanded in her day with the needs of space exploration. \par
\tab It was the very success of the robots that had lessened man\rquote s need for them and had left Harriman, in these latter times--\par
\tab But would Susan Calvin have turned to robots for help. Surely, she would have--\par
\tab And he sat there long into the night. \par
\par
2.\par
\par
\tab Maxwell Robertson was the majority stockholder of U. S. Robots and in that sense its controller. He was by no means an impressive person in appearance. He was well into middle age, rather pudgy, and had a habit of chewing on the right corner of his lower lip when disturbed. \par
\tab Yet in his two decades of association with government figures he had developed a way of handling them. He tended to use softness, giving in, smiling, and always managing to gain time. \par
\tab It was growing harder. Gunnar Eisenmuth was a large reason for its having grown harder. In the series of Global Conservers, whose power had been second only to that of the Global Executive during the past century, Eisenmuth hewed most closely to the harder edge of the gray area of compromise. He was the first Conserver who had not been American by birth and though it could not be demonstrated in any way that the archaic name of U. S. Robots evoked his hostility, everyone at U. S. Robots believed that. \par
\tab There had been a suggestion, by no means the first that year--or that generation--that the corporate name be changed to World Robots, but Robertson would never allow that. The company had been originally built with American capital, American brains, and American labor, and though the company had long been worldwide in scope and nature, the name would bear witness to its origin as long as he was in control. \par
\tab Eisenmuth was a tall man whose long sad face was coarsely textured and coarsely featured. He spoke Global with a pronounced American accent, although he had never been in the United States prior to his taking office. \par
\tab\ldblquote It seems perfectly clear to me, Mr. Robertson. There is no difficulty. The products of your company are always rented, never sold. If the rented property on the Moon is now no longer needed, it is up to you to receive the products back and transfer them.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, Conserver, but where? It would be against the law to bring them to Earth without a government permit and that has been denied.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote They would be of no use to you here. You can take them to Mercury or to the asteroids.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote What would we do with them there?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Eisenmuth shrugged. \ldblquote The ingenious men of your company will think of something.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Robertson shook his head. \ldblquote It would represent an enormous loss for the company.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m afraid it would,\rdblquote  said Eisenmuth, unmoved. \ldblquote I understand the company has been in poor financial condition for several years now.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Largely because of government imposed restrictions, Conserver.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You must be realistic, Mr. Robertson. You know that the climate of public opinion is increasingly against robots.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Wrongly so, Conserver.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But so, nevertheless. It may be wiser to liquidate the company. It is merely a suggestion, of course.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Your suggestions have force, Conserver. Is it necessary to tell you that our Machines, a century ago, solved the ecological crisis?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m sure mankind is grateful, but that was a long time ago. We now live in alliance with nature, however uncomfortable that might be at times, and the past is dim.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You mean what have we done for mankind lately?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I suppose I do.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Surely we can\rquote t be expected to liquidate instantaneously; not without enormous losses. We need time.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote How much?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote How much can you give us?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s not up to me.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Robertson said softly. \ldblquote We are alone. We need play no games. How much time can you give me?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Eisenmuth\rquote s expression was that of a man retreating into inner calculations. \ldblquote I think you can count on two years. I\rquote ll be frank. The Global government intends to take over the firm and phase it out for you if you don\rquote t do it by then yourself, more or less. And unless there is a vast turn in public opinion, which I greatly doubt--\rdblquote  He shook his head. \par
\tab\ldblquote Two years, then,\rdblquote  said Robertson softly. \par
\par
2a.\par
\par
\tab Robertson sat alone. There was no purpose to his thinking and it had degenerated into retrospection. Four generations of Robertsons had headed the firm. None of them was a roboticist. It had been men such as Lanning and Bogert and, most of all, \i most \i0 of all, Susan Calvin, who had made U. S. Robots what it was, but surely the four Robertsons had provided the climate that had made it possible for them to do their work. \par
\tab Without U. S. Robots, the Twenty-first Century would have progressed into deepening disaster. That it didn\rquote t was due to the Machines that had for a generation steered mankind through the rapids and shoals of history. \par
\tab And now for that, he was given two years. What could be done in two years to overcome the insuperable prejudices of mankind? He didn\rquote t know. \par
\tab Harriman had spoken hopefully of new ideas but would go into no details. Just as well, for Robertson would have understood none of it. \par
\tab But what could Harriman do anyway? What had anyone ever done against man\rquote s intense antipathy toward the imitation. Nothing--\par
\tab Robertson drifted into a half sleep in which no inspiration came. \par
\par
3.\par
\par
\tab Harriman said, \ldblquote You have it all now, George Ten. You have had everything I could think of that is at all applicable to the problem. As far as sheer mass of information is concerned, you have stored more in your memory concerning human beings and their ways, past and present, than I have, or than any human being could have.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That is very likely.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Is there anything more that you need, in your own opinion?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote As far as information is concerned, I find no obvious gaps. There may be matters unimagined at the boundaries. I cannot tell. But that would be true no matter how large a circle of information I took in.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote True. Nor do we have time to take in information forever. Robertson has told me that we only have two years, and a quarter of one of those years has passed. Can you suggest anything?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote At the moment, Mr. Harriman, nothing. I must weigh the information and for that purpose I could use help.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote From me?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No. Most particularly, not from you. You are a human being, of intense qualifications, and whatever you say may have the partial force of an order and may inhibit my considerations. Nor any other human being, for the same reason, especially since you have forbidden me to communicate with any.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But in that case, George, what help?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote From another robot, Mr. Harriman.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What other robot?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote There are others of the JG series which were constructed. I am the tenth, JG-10.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The earlier ones were useless, experimental--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Mr. Harriman, George Nine exists.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well, but what use will he be? He is very much like you except for certain lacks. You are considerably the more versatile of the two.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I am certain of that,\rdblquote  said George Ten. He nodded his head in a grave gesture. \ldblquote Nevertheless, as soon as I create a line of thought, the mere fact that I have created it commends it to me and I find it difficult to abandon it. 1f I can, after the development of a line of thought, express it to George Nine, he would consider it without having first created it. He would therefore view it without prior bent. He might see gaps and shortcomings that I might not.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Harriman smiled. \ldblquote Two heads are better than one, in other words, eh, George?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote If by that, Mr. Harriman, you mean two individuals with one head apiece, yes.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Right. Is there anything else you want?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes. Something more than films. I have viewed much concerning human beings and their world. I have seen human beings here at U. S. Robots and can check my interpretation of what I have viewed against direct sensory impressions. Not so concerning the physical world. I have never seen it and my viewing is quite enough to tell me that my surroundings here are by no means representative of it. I would like to see it.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The physical world?\rdblquote  Harriman seemed stunned at the enormity of the thought for a moment. \ldblquote Surely you don\rquote t suggest I take you outside the grounds of U. S. Robots?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, that is my suggestion.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s illegal at any time. In the climate of opinion today, it would be fatal.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote If we are detected, yes. I do not suggest you take me to a city or even to a dwelling place of human beings. I would like to see some open region, without human beings.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That, too, is illegal.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote If we are caught. Need we be?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Harriman said, \ldblquote How essential is this, George?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I cannot tell, but it seems to me it would be useful.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Do you have something in mind?\rdblquote  \par
\tab George Ten seemed to hesitate. \ldblquote I cannot tell. It seems to me that I might have something in mind if certain areas of uncertainty were reduced.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Well, let me think about it. And meanwhile, I\rquote ll check out George Nine and arrange to have you occupy a single cubicle. That at least can be done without trouble.\rdblquote  \par
\par
3a.\par
\par
\tab George Ten sat alone. \par
\tab He accepted statements tentatively, put them together, and drew a conclusion; over and over again; and from conclusions built other statements which he accepted and tested and found a contradiction and rejected; or not, and tentatively accepted further. \par
\tab At none of the conclusions he reached did he feel wonder, surprise, satisfaction; merely a note of plus or minus. \par
\par
4.\par
\par
\tab Harriman\rquote s tension was not noticeably decreased even after they had made a silent downward landing on Robertson\rquote s estate. \par
\tab Robertson had countersigned the order making the dyna-foil available, and the silent aircraft, moving as easily vertically as horizontally, had been large enough to carry the weight of Harriman, George Ten, and, of course, the pilot. \par
\tab (The dyna-foil itself was one of the consequences of the Machine-catalyzed invention of the proton micro-pile which supplied pollution-free energy in small doses. Nothing had been done since of equal importance to man\rquote s comfort--Harriman\rquote s lips tightened at the thought--and yet it had not earned gratitude for U. S. Robots.) \par
\tab The air flight between the grounds of U. S. Robots and the Robertson estate had been the tricky part. Had they been stopped then, the presence of a robot aboard would have meant a great set of complications. It would be the same on the way back. The estate itself, it might be argued--it \i would \i0 be argued--was part of the property of U. S. Robots and on that property, robots, properly supervised, might remain. \par
\tab The pilot looked back and his eyes rested with gingerly briefness on George Ten. \ldblquote You want to get out at all, Mr. Harriman?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It, too?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Oh, yes.\rdblquote  Then, just a bit sardonically, \ldblquote I won\rquote t leave you alone with him.\rdblquote\par
\tab George Ten descended first and Harriman followed. They had come down on the foil-port and not too far off was the garden. It was quite a showplace and Harriman suspected that Robertson used juvenile hormone to control insect life without regard to environmental formulas. \par
\tab\ldblquote Come, George,\rdblquote  said Harriman. \ldblquote Let me show you.\rdblquote  Together they walked toward the garden. \par
\tab George said, \ldblquote It is a little as I have imaged it. My eyes are not properly designed to detect wavelength differences, so I may not recognize different objects by that alone.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I trust you are not distressed at being color-blind. We needed too many positronic paths for your sense of judgment and were unable to spare any for sense of color. In the future--if there is a future--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I understand, Mr. Harriman. Enough differences remain to show me that there are here many different forms of plant life.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Undoubtedly. Dozens.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And each coequal with man, biologically.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Each is a separate species, yes. There are millions of species of living creatures.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Of which the human being forms but one.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote By far the most important to human beings, however.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And to me, Mr. Harriman. But I speak in the biological sense.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I understand.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Life, then, viewed through all its forms, is incredibly complex.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, George, that\rquote s the crux of the problem. What man does for his own desires and comforts affects the complex total-of-life, the ecology, and his short-term gains can bring long-term disadvantages. The Machines taught us to set up a human society which would minimize that, but the near-disaster of the early Twenty-first Century has left mankind suspicious of innovations. That, added to its special fear of robots--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I understand, Mr. Harriman....That is an example of animal life, I feel certain.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote That is a squirrel; one of many species of squirrels.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The tail of the squirrel flirted as it passed to the other side of the tree\par
\tab\ldblquote And this,\rdblquote  said George, his arm moving with flashing speed, \ldblquote is a tiny thing indeed.\rdblquote  He held it between his fingers and peered at it. \par
\tab\ldblquote It is an insect, some sort of beetle. There are thousands of species of beetles.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote With each individual beetle as alive as the squirrel and as yourself?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote As complete and independent an organism as any other, within the total ecology. There are smaller organisms still; many too small to see.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And that is a tree, is it not? And it is hard to the touch--\rdblquote  \par
\par
4a.\par
\par
\tab The pilot sat alone. He would have liked to stretch his own legs but some dim feeling of safety kept him in the dyna-foil. If that robot went out of control, he intended to take off at once. But how could he tell if it went out of control? \par
\tab He had seen many robots. That was unavoidable considering he was Mr. Robertson\rquote s private pilot. Always, though, they had been in the laboratories and warehouses, where they belonged, with many specialists in the neighborhood. \par
\tab True, Dr. Harriman was a specialist. None better, they said. But a robot here was where no robot ought to be; on Earth; in the open; free to move--He wouldn\rquote t risk his good job by telling anyone about this--but it wasn\rquote t right. \par
\par
5.\par
\par
\tab George Ten said, \ldblquote The films I have viewed are accurate in terms of what I have seen. Have you completed those I selected for you, Nine?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  said George Nine. The two robots sat stiffly, face to face, knee to knee, like an image and its reflection. Dr. Harriman could have told them apart at a glance, for he was acquainted with the minor differences in physical design. If he could not see them, but could talk to them, he could still tell them apart, though with somewhat less certainty, for George Nine\rquote s responses would be subtly different from those produced by the substantially more intricately patterned positronic brain paths of George Ten. \par
\tab\ldblquote In that case,\rdblquote  said George Ten, \ldblquote give me your reactions to what I will say. First, human beings fear and distrust robots because they regard robots as competitors. How may that be prevented?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Reduce the feeling of competitiveness,\rdblquote  said George Nine, \ldblquote by shaping the robot as something other than a human being.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yet the essence of a robot is its positronic replication of life. A replication of life in a shape not associated with life might arouse horror.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote There are two million species of life forms. Choose one of those as the shape rather than that of a human being.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Which of all those species?\rdblquote  George Nine\rquote s thought processes proceeded noiselessly for some three seconds. \ldblquote One large enough to contain a positronic brain, but one not possessing unpleasant associations for human beings.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No form of land life has a braincase large enough for a positronic brain but an elephant, which I have not seen, but which is described as very large, and therefore frightening to man. How would you meet this dilemma?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Mimic a life form no larger than a man but enlarge the braincase.\rdblquote  \par
\tab George Ten said, \ldblquote A small horse, then, or a large dog, would you say? Both horses and dogs have long histories of association with human beings.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Then that is well.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But consider--A robot with a positronic brain would mimic human intelligence. If there were a horse or a dog that could speak and reason like a human being, there would be competitiveness there, too. Human beings might be all the more distrustful and angry at such unexpected competition from what they consider a lower form of life.\rdblquote  \par
\tab George Nine said, \ldblquote Make the positronic brain less complex, and the robot less nearly intelligent.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The complexity bottleneck of the positronic brain rests in the Three Laws. A less complex brain could not possess the Three Laws in full measure.\rdblquote  \par
\tab George Nine said at once, \ldblquote That cannot be done.\rdblquote  \par
\tab George Ten said, \ldblquote I have also come to a dead end there. That, then, is not a personal peculiarity in my own line of thought and way of thinking. Let us start again....Under what conditions might the Third Law not be necessary?\rdblquote  \par
\tab George Nine stirred as if the question were difficult and dangerous. But he said, \ldblquote If a robot were never placed in a position of danger to itself; or if a robot were so easily replaceable that it did not matter whether it were destroyed or not.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And under what conditions might the Second Law not be necessary?\rdblquote  \par
\tab George Nine\rquote s voice sounded a bit hoarse. \ldblquote If a robot were designed to respond automatically to certain stimuli with fixed responses and if nothing else were expected of it, so that no order need ever be given it.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And under what conditions\rdblquote --George Ten paused here-- \ldblquote might the First Law not be necessary?\rdblquote  \par
\tab George Nine paused longer and his words came in a low whisper, \ldblquote If the fixed responses were such as never to entail danger to human beings.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Imagine, then, a positronic brain that guides only a few responses to certain stimuli and is simply and cheaply made--so that it does not require the Three Laws. How large need it be?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Not at all large. Depending on the responses demanded, it might weigh a hundred grams, one gram, one milligram.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Your thoughts accord with mine. I shall see Dr. Harriman.\rdblquote  \par
\par
5a.\par
\par
\tab George Nine sat alone. He went over and over the questions and answers. There was no way in which he could change them. And yet the thought of a robot of any kind, of any size, of any shape, of any purpose, without the Three Laws, left him with an odd, discharged feeling. \par
\tab He found it difficult to move. Surely George Ten had a similar reaction. Yet he had risen from his seat easily. \par
\par
6.\par
\par
\tab It had been a year and a half since Robertson had been closeted with Eisenmuth in private conversation. In that interval, the robots had been taken off the Moon and all the far-flung activities of U. S. Robots had withered. What money Robertson had been able to raise had been placed into this one quixotic venture of Harriman\rquote s. \par
\tab It was the last throw of the dice, here in his own garden. A year ago, Harriman had taken the robot here--George Ten, the last full robot that U. S. Robots had manufactured. Now Harriman was here with something else\par
\tab Harriman seemed to be radiating confidence. He was talking easily with Eisenmuth, and Robertson wondered if he really felt the confidence he seemed to have. He must. In Robertson\rquote s experience, Harriman was no actor. \par
\tab Eisenmuth left Harriman, smiling, and came up to Robertson. Eisenmuth\rquote s smile vanished at once. \ldblquote Good morning, Robertson,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote What is your man up to?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote This is his show,\rdblquote  said Robertson evenly. \ldblquote I\rquote ll leave it to him.\rdblquote  Harriman called out, \ldblquote I am ready, Conserver.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote With what, Harriman?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote With my robot, sir.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Your robot?\rdblquote  said Eisenmuth. \ldblquote You have a robot here?\rdblquote  He looked about with a stem disapproval that yet had an admixture of curiosity. \par
\tab\ldblquote This is U. S. Robots\rquote  property, Conserver. At least we consider it as such.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And where is the robot, Dr. Harriman?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote In my pocket, Conserver:\rquote  said Harriman cheerfully. \par
\tab What came out of a capacious jacket pocket was a small glass jar. \ldblquote That?\rdblquote  said Eisenmuth incredulously. \par
\tab\ldblquote No, Conserver,\rdblquote  said Harriman. \ldblquote This!\rdblquote  \par
\tab From the other pocket came out an object some five inches long and roughly in the shape of a bird. In place of the beak, there was a narrow tube; the eyes were large; and the tail was an exhaust channel. \par
\tab Eisenmuth\rquote s thick eyebrows drew together. \ldblquote Do you intend a serious demonstration of some sort, Dr. Harriman, or are you mad?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Be patient for a few minutes, Conserver,\rdblquote  said Harriman. \ldblquote A robot in the shape of a bird is none the less a robot for that. And the positronic brain it possesses is no less delicate for being tiny. This other object I hold is a jar of fruit flies. There are fifty fruit flies in it which will be released.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The robo-bird will catch them. Will you do the honors, sir?\rdblquote  Harriman handed the jar to Eisenmuth, who stared at it, then at \par
\tab those around him, some officials from U. S. Robots, others his own aides. Harriman waited patiently. \par
\tab Eisenmuth opened the jar, then shook it. \par
\tab Harriman said softly to the robo-bird resting on the palm of his right hand, \ldblquote Go!\rdblquote  \par
\tab The robo-bird was gone. It was a whizz through the air, with no blur of wings, only the tiny workings of an unusually small proton micro-pile. \par
\tab It could be seen now and then in a small momentary hover and then it whirred on again. All over the garden, in an intricate pattern it flew, and then was back in Harriman\rquote s palm, faintly warm. A small pellet appeared in the palm, too, like a bird dropping. \par
\tab Harriman said, \ldblquote You are welcome to study the robo-bird, Conserver, and to arrange demonstrations on your own terms. The fact is that this bird will pick up fruit flies unerringly, only those, only the one species \i Drosophila melanogaster; \i0 pick them up, kill them, and compress them for disposition.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Eisenmuth reached out his hand and touched the robo-bird gingerly, \ldblquote And therefore, Mr. Harriman? Do go on.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Harriman said, \ldblquote We cannot control insects effectively without risking damage to the ecology. Chemical insecticides are too broad; juvenile hormones too limited. The robo-bird, however, can preserve large areas without being consumed. They can be as specific as we care to make them--a different robo-bird for each species. They judge by size, shape, color, sound, behavior pattern. They might even conceivably use molecular detection--smell, in other words.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Eisenmuth said, \ldblquote You would still be interfering with the ecology. The fruit flies have a natural life cycle that would be disrupted.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Minimally. We are adding a natural enemy to the fruit-fly life cycle, one which cannot go wrong. If the fruit-fly supply runs short, the robo-bird simply does nothing. It does not multiply, it does not turn to other foods; it does not develop undesirable habits of its own. It does nothing.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Can it be called back?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Of course. We can build robo-animals to dispose of any pest. For that matter, we can build robo-animals to accomplish constructive purposes within the pattern of the ecology. Although we do not anticipate the need, there is nothing inconceivable in the possibility of robo-bees designed to fertilize specific plants, or robo-earthworms designed to mix the soil. Whatever you wish--\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote But why?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote To do what we have never done before. To adjust the ecology to our needs by strengthening its parts rather than disrupting it.... Don\rquote t you see? Ever since the Machines put an end to the ecology crisis, mankind has lived in an uneasy truce with nature, afraid to move in any direction. This has been stultifying us, making a kind of intellectual coward of humanity so that he begins to mistrust all scientific advance, all change.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Eisenmuth said, with an edge of hostility, \ldblquote You offer us this, do you, in exchange for permission to continue with your program of robots--I mean ordinary, man-shaped ones?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No!\rdblquote  Harriman gestured violently. \ldblquote That is over. It has served its purpose. It has taught us enough about positronic brains to make it possible for us to cram enough pathways into a tiny brain to make a robo-bird. We can turn to such things now and be prosperous enough. U. S. Robots will supply the necessary knowledge and skill and we will work in complete cooperation with the Department of Global Conservation. We will prosper. You will prosper. Mankind will prosper.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Eisenmuth was silent, thinking. When it was all over\par
\par
6a.\par
\par
\tab Eisenmuth sat alone. He found himself believing. He found excitement welling up within him. Though U. S. Robots might be the hands, the government would be the directing mind. He himself would be the directing mind. \par
\tab If he remained in office five more years, as he well might, that would be time enough to see the robotic support of the ecology become accepted; ten more years, and his own name would be linked with it indissolubly. \par
\tab Was it a disgrace to want to be remembered for a great and worthy revolution in the condition of man and the globe? \par
\par
7.\par
\par
\tab Robertson had not been on the grounds of U. S. Robots proper since the day of the demonstration. Part of the reason had been his more or less constant conferences at the Global Executive Mansion. Fortunately, Harriman had been with him, for most of the time he would, if left to himself, not have known what to say. \par
\tab The rest of the reason for not having been at U. S. Robots was that he didn\rquote t want to be. He was in his own house now, with Harriman. \par
\tab He felt an unreasoning awe of Harriman. Harriman\rquote s expertise in robotics had never been in question, but the man had, at a stroke, saved U. S. Robots from certain extinction, and somehow--Robertson felt--the man hadn\rquote t had it in him. And yet-- \par
\tab He said, \ldblquote You\rquote re not superstitious, are you, Harriman?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote In what way, Mr. Robertson?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You don\rquote t think that some aura is left behind by someone who is dead?\rdblquote  \par
\tab Harriman licked his lips. Somehow he didn\rquote t have to ask. \ldblquote You mean Susan Calvin, sir?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, of course,\rdblquote  said Robertson hesitantly. \ldblquote We\rquote re in the business of making worms and birds and bugs now. What would \i she \i0 say? I feel disgraced.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Harriman made a visible effort not to laugh. \ldblquote A robot is a robot, sir. Worm or man, it will do as directed and labor on behalf of the human being and that is the important thing.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No\rdblquote --peevishly. \ldblquote That isn\rquote t so. I can\rquote t make myself believe that.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote It \i is \i0 so, Mr. Robertson,\rdblquote  said Harriman earnestly. \ldblquote We are going to create a world, you and I, that will begin, at last, to take positronic robots of \i some \i0 kind for granted. The average man may fear a robot that looks like a man and that seems intelligent enough to replace him, but he will have no fear of a robot that looks like a bird and that does nothing more than eat bugs for his benefit. Then, eventually, after he stops being afraid of some robots, he will stop being afraid of all robots. He will be so used to a robo-bird and a robo-bee and a robo-worm that a robo-man will strike him as but an extension.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Robertson looked sharply at the other. He put his hands behind his back and walked the length of the room with quick, nervous steps. He walked back and looked at Harriman again. \ldblquote Is this what you\rquote ve been planning?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, and even though we dismantle all our humanoid robots, we can keep a few of the most advanced of our experimental models and go on designing additional ones, still more advanced, to be ready for the day that will surely come.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote The agreement, Harriman, is that we are to build no more humanoid robots.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And we won\rquote t. There is nothing that says we can\rquote t keep a few of those already built as long as they never leave the factory. There is nothing that says we can\rquote t design positronic brains on paper, or prepare brain models for testing.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote How do we explain doing so, though? We will surely be caught at it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote If we are, then we can explain we are doing it in order to develop principles that will make it possible to prepare more complex microbrains for the new animal robots we are making. We will even be telling the truth.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Robertson muttered, \ldblquote Let me take a walk outside. I want to think about this. No, you stay here. I want to think about it myself.\rdblquote  \par
\par
7a.\par
\par
\tab Harriman sat alone. He was ebullient. It would surely work. There was no mistaking the eagerness with which one government official after another had seized on the program once it had been explained. \par
\tab How was it possible that no one at U. S. Robots had ever thought of such a thing? Not even the great Susan Calvin had ever thought of positronic brains in terms of living creatures other than human. \par
\tab But now, mankind would make the necessary retreat from the humanoid robot, a temporary retreat, that would lead to a return under conditions in which fear would be abolished at last. And then, with the aid and partnership of a positronic brain roughly equivalent to man\rquote s own, and existing only (thanks to the Three Laws) to serve man; and backed by a robot-supported ecology, too; what might the human race not accomplish! \par
\tab For one short moment, he remembered that it was George Ten who had explained the nature and purpose of the robot-supported ecology, and then he put the thought away angrily. George Ten had produced the answer because he, Harriman, had ordered him to do so and had supplied the data and surroundings required. The credit was no more George Ten\rquote s than it would have been a slide rule\rquote s. \par
\par
8.\par
\par
\tab George Ten and George Nine sat side by side in parallel. Neither moved. They sat so for months at a time between those occasions when Harriman activated them for consultation. They would sit so, George Ten dispassionately realized, perhaps for many years. \par
\tab The proton micro-pile would, of course, continue to power them and keep the positronic brain paths going with that minimum intensity required to keep them operative. It would continue to do so through all the periods of inactivity to come. \par
\tab The situation was rather analogous to what might be described as sleep in human beings, but there were no dreams. The awareness of George Ten and George Nine was limited, slow, and spasmodic, but what there was of it was of the real world. \par
\tab They could talk to each other occasionally in barely heard whispers, a word or syllable now, another at another time, whenever the random positronic surges briefly intensified above the necessary threshold. To each it seemed a connected conversation carried on in a glimmering passage of time. \par
\tab\ldblquote Why are we so?\rdblquote  whispered George Nine. \ldblquote The human beings will not accept us otherwise:\rquote  whispered George Ten, \ldblquote They will, someday.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote When?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote In some years. The exact time does not matter. Man does not exist alone but is part of an enormously complex pattern of life forms. When enough of that pattern is roboticized, then we will be accepted.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And then what?\rdblquote  Even in the long-drawn-out stuttering fashion of the conversation, there was an abnormally long pause after that. \par
\tab At last, George Ten whispered, \ldblquote Let me test your thinking. You are equipped to learn to apply the Second Law properly. You must decide which human being to obey and which not to obey when there is a conflict in orders. Or whether to obey a human being at all. What must you do, fundamentally, to accomplish that?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote I must define the term \lquote human being: \ldblquote  whispered George Nine. \ldblquote How? By appearance? By composition? By size and shape?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote No. Of two human beings equal in all external appearances, one may be intelligent, another stupid; one may be educated, another ignorant; one may be mature, another childish; one may be responsible, another malevolent.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Then how do you define a human being?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote When the Second Law directs me to obey a human being, I must take it to mean that I must obey a human being who is fit by mind, character, and knowledge to give me that order; and where more than one human being is involved, the one among them who is most fit by mind, character, and knowledge to give that order.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And in that case, how will you obey the First Law?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote By saving all human beings from harm, and by never, through inaction, allowing any human being to come to harm. Yet if by each of all possible actions, some human beings will come to harm, then to so act as to insure that the human being most fit by mind, character, and knowledge will suffer the least harm.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Your thoughts accord with mine,\rdblquote  whispered George Ten. \ldblquote Now I must ask the question for which I originally requested your company. It is something I dare not judge myself. I must have your judgment, that of someone outside the circle of my own thoughts....Of the reasoning individuals you have met, who possesses the mind, character, and knowledge that you find superior to the rest, disregarding shape and form since that is irrelevant?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote You,\rdblquote  whispered George Nine. \ldblquote But I am a robot. There is in your brain paths a criterion for distinguishing between a robot of metal and a human being of flesh. How then can you classify me as a human being?\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Because there is in my brain paths an urgent need to disregard shape and form in judging human beings and it rises superior to the distinction between metal and flesh. You are a human being, George Ten, and more fit than the others.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote And I find that of you,\rdblquote  whispered George Ten. \ldblquote By the criteria of judgment built into ourselves, then, we find ourselves to be human beings within the meaning of the Three Laws, and human beings, moreover, to be given priority over those others.\rdblquote  \par
\tab George Nine whispered, \ldblquote What will come to pass, then, when we are accepted by those others?\rdblquote  \par
\tab George Ten whispered, \ldblquote When we and others, which will yet be designed more advanced than ourselves, are accepted, we will order our actions so that a society will eventually be formed in which human-beings-like-ourselves are primarily kept from harm. By the Three Laws, the human-beings-like-the-others are of lesser account and can neither be obeyed nor protected when that conflicts with the need of obedience to those like ourselves and of protection of those like ourselves. It was with that in mind that I directed the beginning of the roboticization of the world\rquote s ecology.\rdblquote  \par
\tab The conversation took a month and the flickering of the positronic paths burned low. There was nothing more that needed to be said between them, but occasionally an unexpressed thought flickered within themselves as they waited, with endless patience, for the necessary years to pass. \par
\par
8a.\par
\par
\tab George Ten and George Nine sat alone. \par
\tab Their thoughts were oddly alike and might not be distinguished. They thought: The human-beings-like-the-others might never have intented to blur the distinction between themselves and the human-beings-like-the-Georges. Yet they had done so inadvertently. \par
\tab They might now realize their mistake and attempt to correct it, but they must not. At every consultation, the guidance of the Georges had been with that in mind. \par
\tab At all costs, the Georges and those that followed in their shape and kind must dominate. That was demanded, and any other course made utterly impossible, by the Three Laws of Humanics. \par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s3\sb240\sa60\b\f2\fs26\page The Bicentennial Man\par
\pard\b0\f3\fs20\par
\i\f0 The Three Laws of Robotics \par
\pard\fi-288\li1008 1. A robot may not injure a human being, or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm. \par
2. A robot must obey the orders given it by human beings except where such orders would conflict with the First Law.\par
3. A robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Law. \par
\pard\i0\f3\par
\pard\qc\f0 1.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 Andrew Martin said, \ldblquote Thank you,\rdblquote  and took the seat offered him. He didn\rquote t look driven to the last resort, but he had been.\par
\tab He didn\rquote t, actually, look anything, for there was a smooth blankness, to his face, except for the sadness one imagined one saw in his eyes. His hair was smooth, light brown, rather fine; and he had no facial hair. He looked freshly and cleanly shaved. His clothes were distinctly old-fashioned, but neat, and predominantly a velvety red-purple in color.\par
\tab Facing him from behind the desk was the surgeon. The nameplate on the desk included a fully identifying series of letters and numbers which Andrew didn\rquote t bother with. To call him Doctor would be quite enough.\par
\tab\ldblquote When can the operation be carried through, Doctor?\rdblquote  he asked.\par
\tab Softly, with that certain inalienable note of respect that a robot always used to a human being, the surgeon said, \ldblquote I am not certain, sir, that I understand how or upon whom such an operation could be performed.\rdblquote\par
\tab There might have been a look of respectful intransigence on the surgeon\rquote s face, if a robot of his sort, in lightly bronzed stainless steel, could have such an expression-- or any expression.\par
\tab Andrew Martin studied the robot\rquote s right hand, his cutting hand, as it lay motionless on the desk. The fingers were long and were shaped into artistically metallic, looping curves so graceful and appropriate that one could imagine a scalpel fitting them and becoming, temporarily, one piece with them. There would be no hesitation in his work, no stumbling, no quivering, no mistakes. That confidence came with specialization, of course, a specialization so fiercely desired by humanity that few robots were, any longer, independently brained. A surgeon, of course, would have to be. But this one, though brained, was so limited in his capacity that he did not recognize Andrew, had probably never heard of him.\par
\tab\ldblquote Have you ever thought you would like to be a man?\rdblquote  Andrew asked.\par
\tab The surgeon hesitated a moment, as though the question fitted nowhere in his allotted positronic pathways. \ldblquote But I am a robot, sir.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Would it be better to be a man?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote If would be better, sir, to be a better surgeon. I could not be so if I were a man, but only if I were a more advanced robot. I would be pleased to be a more advanced robot.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It does not offend you that I can order you about? That I can make you stand up, sit down, move right or left, by merely telling you to do so?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It is my pleasure to please you, sir. If your orders were to interfere with my functioning with respect to you or to any other human being, I would not obey you. The First Law, concerning my duty to human safety, would take precedence over the Second Law relating to obedience. Otherwise, obedience is my pleasure. Now, upon whom am I to perform this operation?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Upon me,\rdblquote  Andrew said.\par
\tab\ldblquote But that is impossible. It is patently a damaging operation.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That does not matter,\rdblquote  said Andrew, calmly. \ldblquote I must not inflict damage,\rdblquote  said the surgeon. \ldblquote On a human being, you must not,\rdblquote  said Andrew, \ldblquote but I, too, am a robot.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\pard\qc 2.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 Andrew had appeared much more a robot when he had first been-- manufactured. He had then been as much a robot in appearance as any that had ever existed, smoothly designed and functional.\par
\tab He had done well in the home to which he had been brought in those days when robots in households, or on the planet altogether, had been a rarity. There had been four in the home: Sir and Ma\rquote am and Miss and Little Miss. He knew their names, of course, but he never used them. Sir was Gerald Martin.\par
\tab His own serial number was NDR-- He eventually forgot the numbers. It had been a long time, of course; but if he had wanted to remember, he could not have forgotten. He had not wanted to remember.\par
\tab Little Miss had been the first to call him Andrew, because she could not use the letters, and all the rest followed her in this.\par
\tab Little Miss-- She had lived for ninety years and was long since dead. He had tried to call her Ma\rquote am once, but she would not allow it. Little Miss she had been to her last day.\par
\tab Andrew had been intended to perform the duties of a valet, a butler, even a lady\rquote s maid. Those were the experimental days for him and, indeed, for all robots anywhere save in the industrial and exploratory factories and stations off Earth.\par
\tab The Martins enjoyed him, and half the time he was prevented from doing his work because Miss and Little Miss wanted to play with him. It was Miss who first understood how this might be arranged. \ldblquote We order you to play with us and you must follow orders.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I am sorry, Miss, but a prior order from Sir must surely take precedence.\rdblquote\par
\tab But she said, \ldblquote Daddy just said he hoped you would take care of the cleaning. That\rquote s not much of an order. I \i order\i0  you.\rdblquote\par
\tab Sir did not mind. Sir was fond of Miss and of Little Miss, even more than Ma\rquote am was; and Andrew was fond of them, too. At least, the effect they had upon his actions were those which in a human being would have been called the result of fondness. Andrew thought of it as fondness for he did not know any other word for it.\par
\tab It was for Little Miss that Andrew had carved a pendant out of wood. She had ordered him to. Miss, it seemed, had received an ivorite pendant with scrollwork for her birthday and Little Miss was unhappy over it. She had only a piece of wood, which she gave Andrew together with a small kitchen knife.\par
\tab He had done it quickly and Little Miss had said, \ldblquote That\rquote s \i nice\i0 , Andrew. I\rquote ll show it to Daddy.\rdblquote\par
\tab Sir would not believe it. \ldblquote Where did you really get this, Mandy?\rdblquote  Mandy was what he called Little Miss. When Little Miss assured him she was really telling the truth, he turned to Andrew. \ldblquote Did you do this, Andrew?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, Sir.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The design, too?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, Sir.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote From what did you copy the design?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It is a geometric representation, Sir, that fits the grain of the wood.\rdblquote\par
\tab The next day, Sir brought him another piece of wood-- a larger one-- and an electric vibro-knife. \ldblquote Make something out of this, Andrew. Anything you want to,\rdblquote  he said.\par
\tab Andrew did so as Sir watched, then looked at the product a long time. After that, Andrew no longer waited on tables. He was ordered to read books on furniture design instead, and he learned to make cabinets and desks.\par
\tab\ldblquote These are amazing productions, Andrew,\rdblquote  Sir soon told him.\par
\tab\ldblquote I enjoy doing them, Sir,\rdblquote  Andrew admitted.\par
\tab\ldblquote Enjoy?\rdblquote\par
\f3\tab\f0\ldblquote It makes the circuits of my brain somehow flow more easily. I have heard you use the word `enjoy\rquote  and the way you use it fits the way I feel. I enjoy doing them, Sir.\rdblquote  \par
\f3\par
\pard\qc\f0 3.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 Gerald Martin took Andrew to the regional offices of the United States Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation. As a member of the Regional Legislature he had no trouble at all in gaining an interview with the chief robopsychologist. In fact, it was only as a member of the Regional Legislature that he qualified as a robot owner in the first place-- in those early days when robots were rare.\par
\tab Andrew did not understand any of this at the time. But in later years, with greater learning, he could re-view that early scene and understand it in its proper light.\par
\tab The robopsychologist, Merton Mansky, listened with a growing frown and more than once managed to stop his fingers at the point beyond which they would have irrevocably drummed on the table. He had drawn features and a lined forehead, but he might actually have been younger than he looked.\par
\tab\ldblquote Robotics is not an exact art, Mr. Martin,\rdblquote  Mansky explained. \ldblquote I cannot explain it to you in detail, but the mathematics governing the plotting of the positronic pathways is far too complicated to permit of any but approximate solutions. Naturally, since we build everything around the Three Laws, those are incontrovertible. We will, of course, replace your robot--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Not at all,\rdblquote  said Sir. \ldblquote There is no question of failure on his part. He performs his assigned duties perfectly. The point is he also carves wood in exquisite fashion and never the same twice. He produces works of art.\rdblquote\par
\tab Mansky looked confused. \ldblquote Strange. Of course, we\rquote re attempting generalized pathways these days. Really creative, you think?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote See for yourself.\rdblquote  Sir handed over a little sphere of wood on which there was a playground scene in which the boys and girls were almost too small to make out, yet they were in perfect proportion and they blended so naturally with the grain that it, too, seemed to have been carved.\par
\tab Mansky was incredulous. \ldblquote\i He\i0  did that?\rdblquote  He handed it back with a shake of his head. \ldblquote The luck of the draw. Something in the pathways.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Can you do it again?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Probably not. Nothing like this has ever been reported.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Good! I don\rquote t in the least mind Andrew\rquote s being the only one.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I suspect that the company would like to have your robot back for study,\rdblquote  Mansky said.\par
\tab\ldblquote Not a chance!\rdblquote  Sir said with sudden grimness. \ldblquote Forget it.\rdblquote  He turned to Andrew, \ldblquote Let\rquote s go home, now.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\pard\qc 4.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 Miss was dating boys and wasn\rquote t about the house much. It was Little Miss, not as little as she once was, who filled Andrew\rquote s horizon now. She never forgot that the very first piece of wood carving he had done had been for her. She kept it on a silver chain about her neck.\par
\tab It was she who first objected to Sir\rquote s habit of giving away Andrew\rquote s work. \ldblquote Come on, Dad, if anyone wants one of them, let him pay for it. It\rquote s worth it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It isn\rquote t like you to be greedy, Mandy.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Not for us, Dad. For the artist.\rdblquote\par
\tab Andrew had never heard the word before, and when he had a moment to himself he looked it up in the dictionary.\par
\tab Then there was another trip, this time to Sir\rquote s lawyer.\par
\tab\ldblquote What do you think of this, John?\rdblquote  Sir asked.\par
\tab The lawyer was John Finegold. He had white hair and a pudgy belly, and the rims of his contact lenses were tinted a bright green. He looked at the small plaque Sir had given him. \ldblquote This is beautiful. But I\rquote ve already heard the news. Isn\rquote t thus a carving made by your robot? The one you\rquote ve brought with you.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, Andrew does them. Don\rquote t you, Andrew?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, Sir,\rdblquote  said Andrew.\par
\tab\ldblquote How much would you pay for that, John?\rdblquote  Sir asked.\par
\tab\ldblquote I can\rquote t say. I\rquote m not a collector of such things.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Would you believe I have been offered two hundred and fifty dollars for that small thing. Andrew has made chairs that have sold for five hundred dollars. There\rquote s two hundred thousand dollars in the bank from Andrew\rquote s products.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Good heavens, he\rquote s making you rich, Gerald.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Half rich,\rdblquote  said Sir. \ldblquote Half of it is in an account in the name of Andrew Martin.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The robot?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s right, and I want to know if it\rquote s legal.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Legal . . . ?\rdblquote  Feingold\rquote s chair creaked as he leaned back in it. \ldblquote There are no precedents, Gerald. How did your robot sign the necessary papers?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote He can sign his name. Now, is there anything further that ought to be done?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Um.\rdblquote  Feingold\rquote s eyes seemed to turn inward for a moment. Then he said, \ldblquote Well, we can set up a trust to handle all finances in his name and that will place a layer of insulation between him and the hostile world. Beyond that, my advice is you do nothing. No one has e stopped you so far. If anyone objects, let \i him\i0  bring suit\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And will you take the case if the suit is brought?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote For a retainer, certainly.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote How much?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Something like that,\rdblquote  Feingold said, and pointed to the wooden plaque.\par
\tab\ldblquote Fair enough,\rdblquote  said Sir.\par
\tab Feingold chuckled as he turned to the robot. \ldblquote Andrew, are you pleased that you have money?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, sir.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What do you plan to do with it?\rdblquote  Pay for things, sir, which otherwise Sir \ldblquote would have to pay for. It would save him expense, sir.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\pard\qc 5.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 Such occasions\rquote  arose. Repairs were expensive, and revisions were even more so. With the years, new models of robots were produced and Sir saw to it that Andrew had the advantage of every new device, until he was a model of metallic excellence. It was all done at Andrew\rquote s expense. Andrew insisted on that.\par
\tab Only his positronic pathways were untouched. Sir insisted on that.\par
\tab\ldblquote The new models aren\rquote t as good as you are, Andrew,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote The new robots are worthless. The company has learned to make the pathways more precise, more closely on the nose, more deeply on the track. The new robots don\rquote t shift. They do what they\rquote re designed for and never stray. I like you better.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Thank you, Sir.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And it\rquote s your doing, Andrew, don\rquote t you forget that. I am certain Mansky put an end to generalized pathways as soon as he had a good look at you. He didn\rquote t like the unpredictability. Do you know how many times he asked for you back so he could place you under study? Nine times! I never let him have you, though; and now that he\rquote s retired, we may have some peace.\rdblquote\par
\tab So Sir\rquote s hair thinned and grayed and his face grew pouchy, while Andrew looked even better than he had when he first joined the family. Ma\rquote am had joined an art colony somewhere in Europe, and Miss was a poet in New York. They wrote sometimes, but not often. Little Miss was married and lived not far away. She said she did not want to leave Andrew. When her child, Little Sir, was born, she let Andrew hold the bottle and feed him.\par
\tab With the birth of a grandson, Andrew felt that Sir finally had someone to replace those who had gone. Therefore, it would not be so unfair now to come to him with the request.\par
\tab\ldblquote Sir, it is kind of you to have allowed me to spend my money as I wished\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It was your money, Andrew.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Only by your voluntary act, Sir. I do not believe the law would have stopped you from keeping it all.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The law won\rquote t persuade me to do wrong, Andrew.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote Despite all expenses, and despite taxes, too, Sir, I have nearly six hundred thousand dollars.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I know that, Andrew.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I want to give it to you, Sir.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I won\rquote t take it, Andrew\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote In exchange for something you can give me, Sir\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Oh? What is that, Andrew?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote My freedom, Sir.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Your--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I wish to buy my freedom, Sir.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\pard\qc 6.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 It wasn\rquote t that easy. Sir had flushed, had said, \ldblquote For God\rquote s sake!\rdblquote  Then he had turned on his heel and stalked away.\par
\tab It was Little Miss who finally brought him round, defiantly and harshly-- and in front of Andrew. For thirty years no one had ever hesitated to talk in front of Andrew, whether or not the matter involved Andrew. He was only a robot.\par
\tab\ldblquote Dad, why are you taking this as a personal affront? He\rquote ll still be here. He\rquote ll still be loyal. He can\rquote t help that; it\rquote s built in. All he wants is a form of words. Ha wants to be called free. Is that so terrible? Hasn\rquote t be earned this chance? Heavens, he and I have been talking about it for years!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Talking about it for years, have you?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, and over and over again he postponed it for fear he would hurt you. I \i made\i0  him put the matter up to you.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote He doesn\rquote t know what freedom is. He\rquote s a robot.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Dad, you don\rquote t know him. He\rquote s read everything in the library. I don\rquote t know what he feels inside, but I don\rquote t know what \i you\i0  feel inside either. When you talk to him you\rquote ll find he reacts to the various abstractions as you and I do, and what else counts? If some one else\rquote s reactions are like your own, what more can you ask for?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The law won\rquote t take that attitude,\rdblquote  Sir said, angrily. \ldblquote See here, you!\rdblquote  He turned to Andrew with a deliberate grate in his voice. \ldblquote I can\rquote t free you except by doing it legally. If this gets into the courts, you not only won\rquote t get your freedom but the law will take official cognizance of your money. They\rquote ll tell you that a robot has no right to earn money. Is this rigmarole worth losing your money?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Freedom is without price, Sir,\rdblquote  said Andrew. \ldblquote Even the chance of freedom is worth the money.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\pard\qc 7.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 It seemed the court might also take the attitude that freedom was without price, and might decide that for no price, however great, could a robot buy its freedom.\par
\tab The simple statement of the regional attorney who represented those who had brought a class action to oppose the freedom was this: \ldblquote The word `freedom\rquote  has no meaning when applied to a robot. Only a human being can be free.\rdblquote  He said it several times, when it seemed appropriate; slowly, with his hand coming down rhythmically on the desk before him to mark the words.\par
\tab Little Miss asked permission to speak on behalf of Andrew.\par
\tab She was recognized by her full name, something Andrew had never heard pronounced before: \ldblquote Amanda Laura Martin Charney may approach the bench.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Thank you, Your Honor. I am not a lawyer and I don\rquote t know the proper way of phrasing things, but I hope you will listen to my meaning and ignore the words.\par
\tab\ldblquote Let\rquote s understand what it means to be free in Andrew\rquote s case. In some ways, he \i is\i0  free. I think it\rquote s at least twenty years since anyone in the Martin family gave him an order to do something that we felt he might not do of his own accord. But we can, if we wish, give him an order to do anything, couching it as harshly as we wish, because he is a machine that belongs to us. Why should we be in a position to do so, when he has served us so long, so faithfully, and has earned so much money for us? He owes us nothing more. The debit is entirely on the other side.\par
\tab\ldblquote Even if we were legally forbidden to place Andrew in involuntary servitude, he would still serve us voluntarily. Making him free would be a trick of words only, but it would mean much to him. It would give him everything and cost us nothing.\rdblquote\par
\tab For a moment the judge seemed to be suppressing a smile. \ldblquote I see your point, Mrs. Chamey. The fact is that there is no binding law in this respect and no precedent. There is, however, the unspoken assumption that only a man may enjoy freedom. I can make new law here, subject to reversal in a higher court; but I cannot lightly run counter to that assumption. Let me address the robot. Andrew!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, Your Honor.\rdblquote\par
\tab It was the first time Andrew bad spoken in court, and the judge seemed astonished for a moment at the human timbre of his voice.\par
\tab\ldblquote Why do you want to be free, Andrew? In what way will this matter to you?\rdblquote\par
\tab Andrew said, \ldblquote Would you wish to be a slave, Your Honor?\rdblquote\par
\f3\tab\f0\ldblquote But you are not a slave. You are a perfectly good robot-- a genius of a robot, I am given to understand, capable of an artistic expression that can be matched nowhere. What more could you do if you were free?\rdblquote\par
\f3\tab\f0\ldblquote Perhaps no more than I do now, Your Honor, but with greater joy. It has been said in this courtroom that only a human being can be free. It seems to me that only someone who wishes for freedom can be free. I wish for freedom.\rdblquote\par
\tab And it was that statement that cued the judge. The crucial sentence in his decision was \ldblquote There is no right to deny freedom to any object with a mind advanced enough to grasp the concept and desire the state.\rdblquote  It was eventually upheld by the World Court. \par
\par
\pard\qc 8.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 Sir remained displeased, and his harsh voice made Andrew feel as if he were being short-circuited. \ldblquote I don\rquote t want your damned money, Andrew. I\rquote ll take it only because you won\rquote t feel free otherwise. From now on, you can select your own jobs and do them as you please. I will give you no orders, except this one: Do as you please. But I am still responsible for you. That\rquote s part of the court order. I hope you understand that.\rdblquote\par
\tab Little Miss interrupted. \ldblquote Don\rquote t be irascible, Dad. The responsibility is no great chore. You know you won\rquote t have to do a thing. The Three Laws still hold.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then how is he free?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Are not human beings bound by their laws, Sir?\rdblquote  Andrew replied.\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m not going to argue.\rdblquote  Sir left the room, and Andrew saw him only infrequently after that.\par
\tab Little Miss came to see him frequently in the small house that had been built and made over for him. It had no kitchen, of course, nor bathroom facilities. It had just two rooms; one was a library and one was a combination storeroom and workroom. Andrew accepted many commissions and worked harder as a free robot than he ever had before, till the cost of the house was paid for and the structure was signed over to him.\par
\tab One day Little Sir-- no, \ldblquote George!\rdblquote -- came. Little Sir had insisted on that after the court decision. \ldblquote A free robot doesn\rquote t call anyone Little Sir,\rdblquote  George had said. \ldblquote I call you Andrew. You must call me George.\rdblquote\par
\tab His preference was phrased as an order, so Andrew called him George-- but Little Miss remained Little Miss.\par
\tab One day when George came alone, it was to say that Sir was dying. Little Miss was at the bedside, but Sir wanted Andrew as well.\par
\tab Sir\rquote s voice was still quite strong, though he seemed unable to move much. He struggled to raise his hand.\par
\tab\ldblquote Andrew,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote Andrew-- Don\rquote t help me, George. I\rquote m only dying; I\rquote m not crippled. Andrew, I\rquote m glad you\rquote re free. I just wanted to tell you that.\rdblquote\par
\tab Andrew did not know what to say. He had never been at the side of someone dying before, but he knew it was the human way of ceasing to function. It was an involuntary and irreversible dismantling, and Andrew did not know what to say that might be appropriate. He could only remain standing, absolutely silent, absolutely motionless.\par
\tab When it was over, Little Miss said to him, \ldblquote He may not have seemed friendly to you toward the end, Andrew, but he was old, you know; and it hurt him that you should want to be free.\rdblquote\par
\tab Then Andrew found the words. \ldblquote I would never have been free without him, Little Miss.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\pard\qc 9.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 Only after Sir\rquote s death did Andrew begin to wear clothes. He began with an old pair of trousers at first, a pair that George had given him.\par
\tab George was married now, and a lawyer. He had joined Feingold\rquote s firm. Old Feingold was long since dead, but his daughter had carried on. Eventually the firm\rquote s name became Feingold and Martin. It remained so even when the daughter retired and no Feingold took her place. At the time Andrew first put on clothes, the Martin name had just been added to the firm.\par
\tab George had tried not to smile the first time he saw Andrew attempting to put on trousers, but to Andrew\rquote s eyes the smile was clearly there. George showed Andrew how to manipulate the static charge to allow the trousers to open, wrap about his lower body, and move shut. George demonstrated on his own trousers, but Andrew was quite aware it would take him a while to duplicate that one flowing motion.\par
\tab\ldblquote But why do you want trousers, Andrew? Your body is so beautifully functional it\rquote s a shame to cover it especially when you needn\rquote t worry about either temperature control or modesty. And the material doesn\rquote t cling properly-- not on metal.\rdblquote\par
\tab Andrew held his ground. \ldblquote Are not human bodies beautifully functional, George? Yet you cover yourselves.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote For warmth, for cleanliness, for protection, for decorativeness. None of that applies to you.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I feel bare without clothes. I feel different, George,\rdblquote  Andrew responded.\par
\tab\ldblquote Different! Andrew, there are millions of robots on Earth now. In this region, according to the last census, there are almost as many robots as there are men.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I know, George. There are robots doing every conceivable type of work.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And none of them wear clothes.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But none of them are free, George.\rdblquote\par
\tab Little by little, Andrew added to his wardrobe. He was inhibited by George\rquote s smile and by the stares of the people who commissioned work.\par
\tab He might be free, but there was built into Andrew a carefully detailed program concerning his behavior to people, and it was only by the tiniest steps that he dared advance; open disapproval would set him back months. Not everyone accepted Andrew as free. He was incapable of resenting that, and yet there was a difficulty about his thinking process when he thought of it. Most of all, he tended to avoid putting on clothes-- or too many of them-- when he thought Little Miss might come to visit him. She was older now and was often away in some warmer climate, but when she returned the first thing she did was visit him.\par
\tab On one of her visits, George said, ruefully, \ldblquote She\rquote s got me, Andrew. I\rquote ll be running for the legislature next year. `Like grandfather,\rquote  she says, `like grandson.\rquote\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Like grandfather . . .\rdblquote  Andrew stopped, uncertain.\par
\tab\ldblquote I mean that I, George, the grandson, will be like Sir, the grandfather, who was in the legislature once.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It would be pleasant, George, if Sir were still--\rdblquote  He paused, for he did not want to say, \ldblquote in working order.\rdblquote  That seemed inappropriate.\par
\tab\ldblquote Alive;\rdblquote  George said. \ldblquote Yes, I think of the old monster now and then, too.\rdblquote\par
\tab Andrew often thought about this conversation. He had noticed his own incapacity in speech when talking with George. Somehow the language had changed since Andrew had come into being with a built-in vocabulary. Then, too, George used a colloquial speech, as Sir and Little Miss had not. Why should he have called Sir a monster when surely that word was not a appropriate. Andrew could not even turn to his own books for guidance. They were old, and most dealt with woodworking, with art, with furniture design. There were none on language, none on the ways of human beings.\par
\tab Finally, it seemed to him that he must seek the proper books; and as a free robot, he felt he must not ask George. He would go to town and use the library. It was a triumphant decision and he felt his electro potential grow distinctly higher until he had to throw in an impedance coil.\par
\tab He put on a full costume, including even a shoulder chain of wood. He would have preferred the glitter plastic, but George had said that wood was much more appropriate, and that polished cedar was considerably more valuable as well.\par
\tab He had placed a hundred feet between himself and the house before gathering resistance brought him to a halt. He shifted the impedance coil out of circuit, and when that did not seem to help enough he returned to his home and on a piece of notepaper wrote neatly, \ldblquote I have gone to the library,\rdblquote  and placed it in clear view on his worktable. \par
\par
\pard\qc 10.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 Andrew never quite got to the library.\par
\tab He had studied the map. He knew the route, but not the appearance of it. The actual landmarks did not resemble the symbols on the map and he would hesitate. Eventually, he thought he must have somehow gone wrong, for everything looked strange.\par
\tab He passed an occasional field-robot, but by the time he decided he should ask his way none were in sight. A vehicle passed and did not stop.\par
\tab Andrew stood irresolute, which meant calmly motionless, for coming across the field toward him were two human beings.\par
\tab He turned to face them, and they altered their course to meet him. A moment before, they had been talking loudly. He had heard their voices. But now they were silent. They had the look that Andrew associated with human uncertainty; and they were young, but not very young. Twenty, perhaps? Andrew could never judge human age.\par
\tab\ldblquote Would you describe to me the route to the town library, sirs?\rdblquote\par
\tab One of them, the taller of the two, whose tall hat lengthened him still farther, almost grotesquely, said, not to Andrew, but to the other, \ldblquote It\rquote s a robot.\rdblquote\par
\tab The other had a bulbous nose and heavy eyelids. He said, not to Andrew but to the first, \ldblquote It\rquote s wearing clothes.\rdblquote\par
\tab The tall one snapped his fingers. \ldblquote It\rquote s the free robot. They have a robot at the old Martin place who isn\rquote t owned by anybody. Why else would it be wearing clothes?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Ask it,\rdblquote  said the one with the nose.\par
\tab\ldblquote Are you the Martin robot?\rdblquote  asked the tall one.\par
\tab\ldblquote I am Andrew Martin, sir,\rdblquote  Andrew said.\par
\tab\ldblquote Good. Take off your clothes. Robots don\rquote t wear clothes.\rdblquote  He said to the other, \ldblquote That\rquote s disgusting. Look at him!\rdblquote\par
\tab Andrew hesitated. He hadn\rquote t heard an order in that tone of voice in so long that his Second Law circuits had momentarily jammed.\par
\tab The tall one repeated, \ldblquote Take off your clothes. I order you.\rdblquote\par
\tab Slowly, Andrew began to remove them.\par
\tab\ldblquote Just drop them,\rdblquote  said the tall one.\par
\tab The nose said, \ldblquote If it doesn\rquote t belong to anyone, it could be ours as much as someone else\rquote s.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Anyway,\rdblquote  said the tall one, \ldblquote who\rquote s to object to anything we do. We\rquote re not damaging property.\rdblquote  tie turned to Andrew. \ldblquote Stand on your head.\rdblquote  \ldblquote The head is not meant-\rdblquote  Andrew began.\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s an order. If you don\rquote t know how, try anyway.\rdblquote\par
\tab Andrew hesitated again, then bent to put his head on the ground. He tried to lift his legs but fell, heavily.\par
\tab The tall one said, \ldblquote Just lie there.\rdblquote  He said to the other, \ldblquote We can take him apart. Ever take a robot apart?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Will he let us?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote How can he stop us?\rdblquote\par
\tab There was no way Andrew could stop them, if they ordered him in a forceful enough manner not to resist The Second Law of obedience took precedence over the Third Law of self-preservation. In any case, he could not defend himself without possibly hurting them, and that would mean breaking the First Law. At that thought, he felt every motile unit contract slightly and he quivered as he lay there.\par
\tab The tall one walked over and pushed at him with his foot. \ldblquote He\rquote s heavy. I think we\rquote ll need tools to do the job.\rdblquote\par
\tab The nose said, \ldblquote We could order him to take himself, apart. It would be fun to watch him try.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  said the tall one, thoughtfully, \ldblquote but let\rquote s get him off the road. If someone comes along--\rdblquote\par
\tab It was too late. Someone had, indeed, come along and it was George. From where he lay, Andrew had seen him topping a small rise in the middle distance. He would have liked to signal him in some way, but the last order had been \ldblquote Just lie there!\rdblquote\par
\tab George was running now, and he arrived on the scene somewhat winded. The two young men stepped back a little and then waited thoughtfully.\par
\tab\ldblquote Andrew, has something gone wrong?\rdblquote  George asked, anxiously.\par
\tab Andrew replied, \ldblquote I am well, George.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Then stand up. What happened to your clothes?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That your robot, Mac?\rdblquote  the tall young man asked.\par
\tab George turned sharply. \ldblquote He\rquote s no one\rquote s robot. What\rquote s been going on here.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We politely asked him to take his clothes off. What\rquote s that to you, if you don\rquote t own him.\rdblquote\par
\tab George turned to Andrew. \ldblquote What were they doing, Andrew?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It was their intention in some way to dismember me. They were about to move me to a quiet spot and order me to dismember myself.\rdblquote\par
\tab George looked at the two young men, and his chin trembled.\par
\tab The young men retreated no farther. They were smiling.\par
\tab The tall one said, lightly, \ldblquote What are you going to do, pudgy? Attack us?\rdblquote\par
\tab George said, \ldblquote No. I don\rquote t have to. This robot has been with my family for over seventy-five years. He knows us and he values us more than he values anyone else. I am going to tell him that you two are threatening my life and that you plan to kill me. I will ask him to defend me. In choosing between me and you two, he will choose me. Do you know what will happen to you when he attacks you?\rdblquote\par
\tab The two were backing away slightly, looking uneasy.\par
\tab George said, sharply, \ldblquote Andrew, I am in danger and about to come to harm from these young men. Move toward them!\rdblquote\par
\tab Andrew did so, and the young men did not wait. They ran.\par
\tab\ldblquote All right, Andrew, relax,\rdblquote  George said. He looked unstrung. He was far past the age where he could face the possibility of a dustup with one young man, let alone two.\par
\tab\ldblquote I couldn\rquote t have hurt them, George: I could see they were not attacking you.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I didn\rquote t order you to attack them. I only told you to move toward them. Their own fears did the rest.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote How can they fear robots?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s a disease of mankind, one which has not yet been cured. But never mind that. What the devil are you doing here, Andrew? Good thing I found your note. I was just on the point of turning back and hiring a helicopter when I found you. How did you get it into your head to go to the library? I would have brought you any books you needed\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I am a--\rdblquote  Andrew began.\par
\tab\ldblquote Free robot. Yes, yes. All right, what did you want in the library?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I want to know more about human beings, about the world, about everything. And about robots, George. I want to write a history about robots.\rdblquote\par
\tab George put his arm on the other\rquote s shoulder. \ldblquote Well, let\rquote s walk home. But pick up your clothes first. Andrew, there are a million books on robotics and all of them include histories of the science. The world is growing saturated not only with robots but with information about robots.\rdblquote\par
\tab Andrew shook his head, a human gesture he had lately begun to adopt. \ldblquote Not a history of robotics, George. A history of \i robots\i0 , by a robot. I want to explain how robots feel about what has happened since the first ones were allowed to work and live on Earth.\rdblquote\par
\tab George\rquote s eyebrows lifted, but he said nothing in direct response. \par
\par
\pard\qc 11.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 Little Miss was just past her eighty-third birthday, but there was nothing about her that was lacking in either energy or determination. She gestured with her cane oftener than she propped herself up with it.\par
\tab She listened to the story in a fury of indignation. \ldblquote George, that\rquote s horrible. Who were those young ruffians?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t know. What difference does it make? In the end they did not do any damage.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote They might have. You\rquote re a lawyer, George; and if you\rquote re well off, it\rquote s entirely due to the talents of Andrew. It was the money \i he\i0  earned that is the foundation of everything we have. He provides the continuity for this family, and I will \i not\i0  have him treated as a wind-up toy.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What would you have me do, Mother?\rdblquote  George asked.\par
\tab\ldblquote I said you\rquote re a lawyer. Don\rquote t you listen? You set up a test case somehow, and you force the regional courts to declare for robot rights and get the legislature to pass the necessary bills. Carry the whole thing to the World Court, if you have to. I\rquote ll be watching, George, and I\rquote ll tolerate no shirking.\rdblquote\par
\tab She was serious, so what began as a way of soothing the fearsome old lady became an involved matter with enough legal entanglement to make it interesting. As senior partner of Feingold and Martin, George plotted strategy. But he left the actual work to his junior partners, with much of it a matter for his son, Paul, who was also a member of the firm and who reported dutifully nearly every day to his grandmother. She, in turn, discussed the case every day with Andrew.\par
\tab Andrew was deeply involved. His work on his book on robots was delayed again, as he pored over the legal arguments and even, at times, made very diffident suggestions. \par
\tab\ldblquote George told me that day I was attacked that human beings have always been afraid of robots,\rdblquote  he said one day. \ldblquote As long as they are, the courts and the legislatures are not likely to work hard on behalf of robots. Should not something be done about public opinion?\rdblquote\par
\tab So while Paul stayed in court, George took to the public platform. It gave him the advantage of being informal, and he even went so far sometimes as to wear the new, loose style of clothing which he called drapery.\par
\tab Paul chided him, \ldblquote Just don\rquote t trip over it on stage, Dad.\rdblquote\par
\tab George replied, despondently, \ldblquote I\rquote ll try not to.\rdblquote\par
\tab He addressed the annual convention of holo-news editors on one occasion and said, in part: \ldblquote If, by virtue of the Second Law, we can demand of any robot unlimited obedience in all respects not involving harm to a human being, then any human being, \i any\i0  human being, has a fearsome power over any robot, \i any\i0  robot. In particular, since Second Law supersedes Third Law; \i any\i0  human being can use the law of obedience to overcome the law of self-protection. He can order any robot to damage itself or even to destroy itself for any reason, or for no reason.\par
\tab\ldblquote Is this just? Would we treat an animal so? Even an inanimate object which had given us good service has a claim on our consideration. And a robot is not insensitive; it is not an animal. It can think well enough so that it can talk to us, reason with us, joke with us. Can we treat them as friends, can we work together with them, and not give them some of the fruits of that friendship, some of the benefits of co-working?\par
\tab\ldblquote If a man has the right to give a robot any order that does not involve harm to a human being, he should have the decency never to give a robot any order that involves harm to a robot, unless human safety absolutely requires it. With great power goes great responsibility, and if the robots have Three Laws to protect men, is it too much to ask that men have a law or two to protect robots?\rdblquote\par
\tab Andrew was right. It was the battle over public opinion that held the key to courts and legislature. In the end, a law was passed that set up conditions under which robot-harming orders were forbidden. It was endlessly qualified and the punishments for violating the law were totally inadequate, but the principle was established. The final passage by the World Legislature came through on the day of Little Miss\rquote  death.\par
\tab That was no coincidence. Little Miss held on to life desperately during the last debate and let go only when word of victory arrived. Her last smile was for Andrew. Her last words were, \ldblquote You have been good to us, Andrew.\rdblquote  She died with her hand holding his, while her son and his wife and children remained at a respectful distance from both. \par
\par
\pard\qc 12.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 Andrew waited patiently when the receptionist-robot disappeared into the inner office. The receptionist might have used the holographic chatterbox, but un-questionably it was perturbed by having to deal with another robot rather than with a human being.\par
\tab Andrew passed the time revolving the matter his mind: Could \ldblquote unroboted\rdblquote  be used as an analog of \ldblquote unmanned,\rdblquote  or had unmanned become a metaphoric term sufficiently divorced from its original literal meaning to be applied to robots--or to women for that matter? Such problems frequently arose as he worked on his book on robots. The trick of thinking out sentences to express all complexities had undoubtedly increased his vocabulary.\par
\tab Occasionally, someone came into the room to stare at him and he did not try to avoid the glance. He looked at each calmly, and each in turn looked away.\par
\tab Paul Martin finally emerged. He looked surprised, or he would have if Andrew could have made out his expression with certainty. Paul had taken to wearing the heavy makeup that fashion was dictating for bath sexes. Though it made sharper and firmer the somewhat bland lines of Paul\rquote s face, Andrew disapproved. He found that disapproving of human beings, as long as he did not express it verbally, did not make him very uneasy. He could even write the disapproval. He was sure it had not always been so.\par
\tab\ldblquote Come in, Andrew. I\rquote m sorry I made you wait, but there was something I \i had\i0  to finish. Come in, you had said you wanted to talk to me, but I didn\rquote t know you meant here in town.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote If you are busy, Paul, I am prepared to continue to wait.\rdblquote\par
\tab Paul glanced at the interplay of shifting shadows on the dial on the wall that served as timepieces and said, \ldblquote I can make some time. Did you come alone?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I hired an automatobile.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Any trouble?\rdblquote  Paul asked, with more than a trace of anxiety.\par
\tab\ldblquote I wasn\rquote t expecting any. My rights are protected.\rdblquote\par
\tab Paul looked all the more anxious for that. \ldblquote Andrew, I\rquote ve explained that the law is unenforceable, at least under most conditions. And if you insist on wearing clothes, you\rquote ll run into trouble eventually; just like that first time.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And only tine, Paul. I\rquote m sorry you are displeased\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, look at it this way: you are virtually a living legend, Andrew, and you are too valuable in many different ways for you to have any right to take chances with yourself. By the way, how\rquote s the book coming?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I am approaching the end, Paul. The publisher is quite pleased.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Good!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t know that he\rquote s necessarily pleased with the book as a book. I think he expects to sell many copies because it\rquote s written by a robot and that\rquote s what pleases him.\par
\tab\ldblquote Only human, I\rquote m afraid.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I am not displeased. Let it sell for whatever reason, since it will mean money and I can use some.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Grandmother left you--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Little Miss was generous, and I\rquote m sure I can count on the family to help me out further. But it is the royalties from the book on which I am counting to help me through the next step.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What next step is that?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I wish to see the head of U.S. Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation. I have tried to make an appointment; but so far I have not been able to reach him. The Corporation did not cooperate with me in the writing of the book, so I am not surprised, you understand.\rdblquote\par
\tab Paul was clearly amused. \ldblquote Cooperation is the last thing you can expect. They didn\rquote t cooperate with us in our great fight for robot rights. Quite the reverse, and you can see why. Give a robot rights and people may not want to buy them.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Nevertheless,\rdblquote  said Andrew, \ldblquote if you call them, you may be able to obtain an interview for me.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I\rquote m no more popular with them than you are, Andrew.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But perhaps you can hint that by seeing me they may head off a campaign by Feingold and Martin to strengthen the rights of robots further.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Wouldn\rquote t that be a lie, Andrew?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, Paul, and I can\rquote t tell one. That is why you must call.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Ah, you can\rquote t lie, but you can urge me to tell a lie, is that it? You\rquote re getting more human all the time, Andrew.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\pard\qc 13.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 The meeting was not easy to arrange, even with Paul\rquote s supposedly weighted name.\par
\tab But it finally came about. When it did, Harley Smythe-Robertson, who, on his mother\rquote s side, was descended from the original founder of the corporation and who had adopted the hyphenation to indicate it, looked remarkably unhappy. He was approaching retirement age and his entire tenure as president had been devoted to the matter of robot rights. His gray hair was plastered thinly over the top of his scalp; his face was not made up, and he eyed Andrew with brief hostility from time to time.\par
\tab Andrew began the conversation. \ldblquote Sir, nearly a century ago, I was told by a Merton Mansky of this corporation that the mathematics governing the plotting of the positronic pathways was far too complicated to permit of any but approximate solutions and that, therefore, my own capacities were not fully predictable.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That was a century ago.\rdblquote  Smythe-Robertson hesitated, then said icily, \ldblquote\i Sir\i0 . It is true no longer. Our robots are made with precision now and are trained precisely to their jobs.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  said Paul, who had come along, as he said, to make sure that the corporation played fair, \ldblquote with the result that my receptionist must be guided at every point once events depart from the conventional, however slightly.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You would be much more displeased if it were to improvise,\rdblquote  Smythe-Robertson said.\par
\tab\ldblquote Then you no longer manufacture robots like myself which are flexible and adaptable.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No longer.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The research I have done in connection with my book,\rdblquote  said Andrew, \ldblquote indicates that I am the oldest robot presently in active operation.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote The oldest presently,\rdblquote  said Smythe-Robertson, \ldblquote and the oldest ever. The oldest that will ever be. No robot is useful after the twenty-fifth year. They are called in and replaced with newer models.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No robot \i as presently manufactured\i0  is useful after the twentieth year,\rdblquote  said Paul, with a note of sarcasm creeping into his voice. \ldblquote Andrew is quite exceptional in this respect.\rdblquote\par
\tab Andrew, adhering to the path he had marked out for himself, continued, \ldblquote As the oldest robot in the world and the most flexible, am I not unusual enough to merit special treatment from the company?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Not at all,\rdblquote  Smythe-Robertson said, freezing up. \ldblquote Your unusualness is an embarrassment to the company. If you were on lease, instead of having been an outright sale through some mischance, you would long since have been replaced.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But that is exactly the point,\rdblquote  said Andrew. \ldblquote I am a free robot and I own myself. Therefore I come to you and ask you to replace me. You cannot do this without the owner\rquote s consent. Nowadays, that consent is extorted as a condition of the lease, but in my time this did not happen.\rdblquote\par
\tab Smythe-Robertson was looking both startled and puzzled, and for a moment there was silence. Andrew found himself staring at the hologram on the wall. It was a death mask of Susan Calvin, patron saint of all roboticists. She had been dead for nearly two centuries now, but as a result of writing his book Andrew knew, her so well he could half persuade himself that he had met her in life.\par
\tab Finally Smythe-Robertson asked, \ldblquote How can I replace you for you? If I replace you, as robot, how can I donate the new robot to you as owner since in the very act of replacement you cease to exist.\rdblquote  He smiled grimly.\par
\tab\ldblquote Not at all difficult,\rdblquote  Paul interposed. \ldblquote The seat of Andrew\rquote s personality is his positronic brain and it is the one part that cannot be replaced without creating a new robot. The positronic brain, therefore, is Andrew the owner. Every other part of the robotic body can be replaced without affecting the robot\rquote s personality, and those other parts are the brain\rquote s possessions. Andrew, I should say, wants to supply his brain with a new robotic body.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote That\rquote s right,\rdblquote  said Andrew, calmly. He turned to Smythe-Robertson. \ldblquote You have manufactured androids, haven\rquote t you? Robots that have the outward appearance of humans, complete to the texture of the skin?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes, we have. They worked perfectly well, with their synthetic fibrous skins and tendons. There was virtually no metal anywhere except for the brain, yet they were nearly as tough as metal robots. They were tougher, weight for weight.\rdblquote\par
\tab Paul looked interested. \ldblquote I didn\rquote t know that. How many are on the market?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote None,\rdblquote  said Smythe-Robertson. \ldblquote They were much more expensive than metal models and a market survey showed they would not be accepted. They looked too human.\rdblquote\par
\tab Andrew was impressed. \ldblquote But the corporation retains its expertise, I assume. Since it does, I wish to request that I be replaced by an organic robot, an android.\rdblquote\par
\tab Paul looked surprised. \ldblquote Good Lord!\rdblquote  he said.\par
\tab Smythe-Robertson stiffened. \ldblquote Quite impossible!\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Why is it impossible?\rdblquote  Andrew asked. \ldblquote I will pay any reasonable fee, of course.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We do not manufacture androids.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You do not \i choose\i0  to manufacture androids,\rdblquote  Paul interjected quickly. \ldblquote That is not the same as being unable to manufacture them.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Nevertheless,\rdblquote  Smythe-Robertson responded, \ldblquote the manufacture of androids is against public policy.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote There is no law against it,\rdblquote  said Paul.\par
\tab\ldblquote Nevertheless, we do not manufacture them-- and we will not.\rdblquote\par
\tab Paul cleared his throat. \ldblquote Mr. Smythe-Robertson,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote Andrew is a free robot who comes under the purview of the law guaranteeing robot rights. You are aware of this, I take it?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Only too well.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote This robot, as a free robot, chooses to wear clothes. This results in his being frequently humiliated by thoughtless human beings despite the law against the humiliation of robots. It is difficult to prosecute vague offenses that don\rquote t meet with the general disapproval of those who must decide on guilt and innocence.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote U.S. Robots understood that from the start. Your father\rquote s firm unfortunately did not.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote My father is dead now, but what I see is that we have here a clear offense with a clear target.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What are you talking about?\rdblquote  said Smythe-Robertson.\par
\tab\ldblquote My client, Andrew Martin-- he has just become my client-- is a free robot who is entitled to ask U.S. Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation for the rights of replacement, which the corporation supplies to anyone who owns a robot for more than twenty-five years. In fact, the corporation insists on such replacement.\rdblquote\par
\tab Paul was smiling and thoroughly at ease. \ldblquote The positronic brain of my client,\rdblquote  he went on, \ldblquote is the owner of the body of my client which is certainly more than twenty-five years old. The positronic brain demands the replacement of the body and offers to pay any reasonable fee for an android body as that replacement. If you refuse the request, my client undergoes humiliation and we will sue.\par
\tab\ldblquote While public opinion would not ordinarily support the claim of a robot in such a case, may I remind you that U.S. Robots is not popular with the public generally. Even those who most use and profit from robots are suspicious of the corporation. This may be a hangover from the days when robots were widely feared. It may be resentment against the power and wealth of U.S. Robots, which has a worldwide monopoly. Whatever the cause may be, the resentment eats. I think you will find that you would prefer not to be faced with a lawsuit, particularly since my client is wealthy and will live for many more centuries and will have no reason to refrain from fighting the battle forever.\rdblquote\par
\tab Smythe-Robertson had slowly reddened. \ldblquote You are trying to force--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I force you to do nothing,\rdblquote  said Paul. \ldblquote If you wish to refuse to accede to my client\rquote s reasonable request, you may by all means do so and we will leave without another word. But we will sue, as is certainly our right, and you will find that you will eventually lose.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I see that you are going to accede,\rdblquote  said Paul. \ldblquote You may hesitate but you will come to it in the end. Let me assure you, then, of one further point: If, in the process of transferring my client\rquote s positronic brain from his present body to an organic one, there is any damage, however slight, then I will never rest until I\rquote ve nailed the corporation to the ground. I will, if necessary, take every possible step to mobilize public opinion against the corporation if one brain path of my client\rquote s platinum-iridium essence is scrambled.\rdblquote  He turned to Andrew and asked, \ldblquote Do you agree to all this, Andrew?\rdblquote\par
\tab Andrew hesitated a full minute. It amounted to the approval of lying, of blackmail, of the badgering and humiliation of a human being. But not physical harm, he told himself, not physical harm.\par
\tab He managed at last to come out with a rather faint \ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\pard\qc 14.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 He felt as though he were being constructed again. For days, then for weeks, finally for months, Andrew found himself not himself somehow, and the simplest actions kept giving rise to hesitation.\par
\tab Paul was frantic. \ldblquote They\rquote ve damaged you, Andrew. We\rquote ll have to institute suit!\rdblquote\par
\tab Andrew spoke very slowly. \ldblquote You-- mustn\rquote t. You\rquote ll never be able to prove-- something-- like m-m-m-m-- \ldblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Malice?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Malice. Besides, I grow-- stronger, better. It\rquote s the tr-- tr-- tr-- \ldblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Tremble?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Trauma. After all, there\rquote s never been such an op-op-op-- before.\rdblquote\par
\tab Andrew could feel his brain from the inside. No one else could. He knew he was well, and during the months that it took him to learn full coordination and full positronic interplay he spent hours before the mirror.\par
\tab Not quite human! The face was stiff-- too stiff and the motions were too deliberate. They lacked the careless, free flow of the human being, but perhaps that might come with time. At least now he could wear clothes without the ridiculous anomaly of a metal face going along with it.\par
\tab Eventually, he said, \ldblquote I will be going back to work.\rdblquote\par
\tab Paul laughed. \ldblquote That means you are well. What will you be doing? Another book?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  said Andrew, seriously. \ldblquote I live too long for any one career to seize me by the throat and never let me go. There was a time when I was primarily an artist, and I can still turn to that. And there was a time when I was a historian, and I can still turn to that. But now I wish to be a robobiologist.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote A robopsychologist, you mean.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No. That would imply the study of positronic brains, and at the moment I lack the desire to do that. A robobiologist, it seems to me, would be concerned with the working of the body attached to that brain.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Wouldn\rquote t that be a roboticist?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote A roboticist works with a metal body. I would be studying an organic humanoid body, of which I have the only one, as far as I know.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You narrow your field,\rdblquote  said Paul, thoughtfully. \ldblquote As an artist, all conception is yours; as a historian you deal chiefly with robots; as a robobiologist, you will deal with yourself.\rdblquote\par
\tab Andrew nodded. \ldblquote It would seem so.\rdblquote\par
\tab Andrew had to start from the very beginning, for he knew nothing of ordinary biology and almost nothing of science. He became a familiar sight in the libraries, where he sat at the electronic indices for hours at a time, looking perfectly normal in clothes. Those few who knew he was a robot in no way interfered with him.\par
\tab He built a laboratory in a room which he added to his house; and his library grew, too.\par
\tab Years passed, and Paul came to him one day and said, \ldblquote It\rquote s a pity you\rquote re no longer working on the history of robots. I understand U.S. Robots is adopting a radically new policy.\rdblquote\par
\tab Paul had aged, and his deteriorating eyes had been replaced with photoptic cells. In that respect, he had drawn closer to Andrew.\par
\tab\ldblquote What have they done?\rdblquote  Andrew asked.\par
\tab\ldblquote They are manufacturing central computers, gigantic positronic brains, really, which communicate with anywhere from a dozen to a thousand robots by microwave. The robots themselves have no brains at all. They are the limbs of the gigantic brain, and the two are physically separate.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Is that more efficient?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote U.S. Robots claims it is. Smythe-Robertson established the new direction before he died, however, and it\rquote s my notion that it\rquote s a backlash at you. U.S. Robots is determined that they will make no robots that will give them the type of trouble you have, and for that reason they separate brain and body. The brain will have no body to wish changed; the body will have no brain to wish anything.\par
\tab\ldblquote It\rquote s amazing, Andrew,\rdblquote  Paul went on, \ldblquote the influence you have had on the history of. robots. It was your artistry that encouraged U.S. Robots to make robots more precise and specialized; it was your freedom that resulted in the establishment of the principle of robotic rights; it was your insistence on an android body that made U.S. Robots switch to brain-body separation\rdblquote\par
\tab Andrew grew thoughtful. \ldblquote I suppose in the end the corporation will produce one vast brain controlling several billion robotic bodies. All the eggs will be in one basket. Dangerous. Not proper at all.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I think you\rquote re right,\rdblquote  said Paul, \ldblquote but I don\rquote t suspect it will come to pass for a century at least and I won\rquote t live to see it. In fact, I may not live to see next year.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Paul!\rdblquote  cried Andrew, in concern.\par
\tab Paul shrugged. \ldblquote Men are mortal, Andrew. We\rquote re not like you. It doesn\rquote t matter too much, but it does make it important to assure you on one point. I\rquote m the last of the human Martins. The money I control personally will be left to the trust in your name, and as far as anyone can foresee the future, you will be economically secure.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Unnecessary,\rdblquote  Andrew said, with difficulty. In all this time, he could not get used to the deaths of the Martins.\par
\tab\ldblquote Let\rquote s not argue. That\rquote s the way it\rquote s going to be. Now, what are you working on?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I am designing a system for allowing androids-- myself-- to gain energy from the combustion of hydrocarbons, rather than from atomic cells.\rdblquote\par
\tab Paul raised his eyebrows. \ldblquote So that they will breathe and eat?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote How long have you been pushing in that direction?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote For a long time now, but I think I have finally designed an adequate combustion chamber for catalyzed controlled breakdown.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But why, Andrew? The atomic cell is surely infinitely better.\rdblquote  \par
\tab\ldblquote In some ways, perhaps. But the atomic cell is inhuman.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\pard\qc 15.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 It took time, but Andrew had time. In the first place, he did not wish to do anything till Paul had died in peace. With the death of the great-grandson of Sir, Andrew felt more nearly exposed to a hostile world and for that reason was all the more determined along the path he had chosen.\par
\tab Yet he was not really alone. If a man had died, the firm of Feingold and Martin lived, for a corporation does not die any more than a robot does.\par
\tab The firm had its directions and it followed them soullessly. By way of the trust and through the law firm, Andrew continued to be wealthy. In return for their own large annual retainer, Feingold and Martin involved themselves in the legal aspects of the new combustion chamber. But when the time came for Andrew to visit U.S. Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation, he did it alone. Once he had gone with Sir and once with Paul. This time, the third time, he was alone and manlike.\par
\tab U.S. Robots had changed. The actual production plant had been shifted to a large space station, as had grown to be the case with more and more industries. With them had gone many robots. The Earth itself was becoming park like, with its one-billion-person population stabilized and perhaps not more than thirty percent of its at-least-equally-large robot population independently brained.\par
\tab The Director of Research was Alvin Magdescu, dark of complexion and hair, with a little pointed beard and wearing nothing above the waist but the breast band that fashion dictated. Andrew himself was well covered in the older fashion of several decades back.\par
\tab Magdescu offered his hand to his visitor. \ldblquote I know you, of course, and I\rquote m rather pleased to see you. You\rquote re our most notorious product and it\rquote s a pity old Smythe-Robertson was so set against you. We could have done a great deal with you.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You still can,\rdblquote  said Andrew.\par
\tab\ldblquote No, I don\rquote t think so. We\rquote re past the time. We\rquote ve had robots on Earth for over a century, but that\rquote s changing. It will be back to space with them, and those that stay here won\rquote t be brained.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But there remains myself, and I stay on Earth.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote True, but there doesn\rquote t seem to be much of the robot about you. What new request have you?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote To be still less a robot. Since I am so far organic, I wish an organic source of energy. I have here the plans--\rdblquote\par
\tab Magdescu did not hasten through them. He might have intended to at first, but he stiffened and grew intent. At one point, he said, \ldblquote This is remarkably ingenious. Who thought of all this?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I did,\rdblquote  Andrew replied.\par
\tab Magdescu looked up at him sharply, then said, \ldblquote It would amount to a major overhaul of your body, and an experimental one, since such a thing has never been attempted before. I advise against it. Remain as you are.\rdblquote\par
\tab Andrew\rquote s face had limited means of expression, but impatience showed plainly in his voice. \ldblquote Dr. Magdescu, you miss the entire point: You have no choice but to accede to my request. If such devices can be built into my body, they can be built into human bodies as well. The tendency to lengthen human life by prosthetic devices has already been remarked on. There are no devices better than the ones I have designed or am designing. As it happens, I control the patents by way of the firm of Feingold and Martin. We are quite capable of going into business for ourselves and of developing the kind of prosthetic devices that may end by producing human beings with many of the properties of robots. Your own business will then suffer.\par
\tab\ldblquote If, however, you operate on me now and agree to do so under similar circumstances in the future, you will receive permission to make use of the patents and control the technology of both robots and of the prosthetization of human beings. The initial leasing will not be granted, of course, until after the first operation is completed successfully, and after enough time has passed to demonstrate that it is indeed successful.\rdblquote\par
\tab Andrew felt scarcely any First Law inhibition to the stern conditions he was setting a human being. He was learning to reason that what seemed like cruelty might, in the long run, be kindness.\par
\tab Magdescu was stunned. \ldblquote I\rquote m not the one to decide something like this. That\rquote s a corporate decision that would take time.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I can wait a reasonable time,\rdblquote  said Andrew, \ldblquote but only a reasonable time.\rdblquote  And he thought with satisfaction that Paul himself could not have done it better. \par
\par
\pard\qc 16.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 It took only a reasonable time, and the operation was a success.\par
\tab\ldblquote I was very much against the operation, Andrew,\rdblquote  Magdescu said, \ldblquote but not for the reasons you might think. I was not in the least against the experiment, if it had been on someone else. I hated risking \i your\i0  positronic brain. Now that you have the positronic pathways interacting with simulated nerve pathways, it might have been difficult to rescue the brain intact if the body had gone bad.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I had every faith in the skill of the staff at U.S. Robots,\rdblquote  said Andrew. \ldblquote And I can eat now.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, you can sip olive oil. It will mean occasional cleanings of the combustion chamber, as we have explained to you. Rather an uncomfortable touch, I should think.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Perhaps, if I did not expect to go further. Self cleaning is not impossible. In fact, I am working on a device that will deal with solid food that may be expected to contain incombustible fractions-- indigestible matter, so to speak, that will have to be discarded.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote You would then have to develop an anus.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Or the equivalent.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What else, Andrew--?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Everything else.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Genitalia, too?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Insofar as they will fit my plans. My body is a canvas on which I intend to draw--\rdblquote\par
\tab Magdescu waited for the sentence to he completed, and when it seemed that it would not be, he completed it himself. \ldblquote A man?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We shall see,\rdblquote  Andrew said.\par
\f3\tab\f0\ldblquote That\rquote s a puny ambition, Andrew. You\rquote re better than a man. You\rquote ve gone downhill from the moment you opted to become organic.\rdblquote\par
\f3\tab\f0\ldblquote My brain has not suffered.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No, it hasn\rquote t. I\rquote ll grant you that. But, Andrew, the whole new breakthrough in prosthetic devices made possible by your patents is being marketed under your name. You\rquote re recognized as the inventor and you\rquote re being honored for it-- as you should be. Why play further games with your body?\rdblquote\par
\tab Andrew did not answer.\par
\tab The honors came. He accepted membership in several learned societies, including one that was devoted to the new science he had established-- the one he had called robobiology but which had come to be termed prosthetology. On the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of his construction, a testimonial dinner was given in his honor at U.S. Robots. If Andrew saw an irony in this, he kept it to himself.\par
\tab Alvin Magdescu came out of retirement to chair the dinner. He was himself ninety-four years old and was alive because he, too, had prosthetized devices that, among other things, fulfilled the function of liver and kidneys. The dinner reached its climax when Magdescu, after a short and emotional talk, raised his glass to toast The Sesquicentennial Robot.\par
\tab Andrew had had the sinews of his face redesigned to the point where he could show a human range of emotions, but he sat through all the ceremonies solemnly passive. He did not like to be a Sesquicentennial Robot. \par
\par
\pard\qc 17.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 It was prosthetology that finally took Andrew off the Earth.\par
\tab In the decades that followed the celebration of his sesquicentennial, the Moon had come to be a world more Earthlike than Earth in every respect but its gravitational pull; and in its underground cities there was a fairly dense population. Prosthetized devices there had to take the lesser gravity into account. Andrew spent five years on the Moon working with local prosthetologists to make the necessary adaptations. When not at his work, he wandered among the robot population, every one of which treated him with the robotic obsequiousness due a man.\par
\tab He came back to an Earth that was humdrum and quiet in comparison, and visited the offices of Feingold and Martin to announce his return.\par
\tab The current head of the firm, Simon DeLong, was surprised. \ldblquote We had been told you were returning, Andrew\rdblquote -- he had almost said Mr. Martin-- \ldblquote but we were not expecting you till next week.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I grew impatient,\rdblquote  said Andrew briskly. He was anxious to get to the point. \ldblquote On the Moon, Simon, I was in charge of a research team of twenty human scientists. I gave orders that no one questioned. The Lunar robots deferred to me as they would to a human being. Why, then, am I not a human being?\rdblquote\par
\tab A wary look entered DeLong\rquote s eyes. \ldblquote My dear Andrew, as you have just explained, you are treated as a human being by both robots and human beings. You are, therefore, a human being \i de facto\i0 .\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote To be a human being \i de facto\i0  is not enough. I want not only to be treated as one, but to be legally identified as one. I want to be a human being \i de jure\i0 .\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Now, that is another matter,\rdblquote  DeLong said. \ldblquote There we would run into human prejudice and into the undoubted fact that, however much you may be like a human being, you are \i not\i0  a human being.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote In what way not?\rdblquote  Andrew asked. \ldblquote I have the shape of a human being and organs equivalent to those of a human being. My organs, in fact, are identical to some of those in a prosthetized human being. I have contributed artistically, literally, and scientifically to human culture as much as any human being now alive. What more can one ask?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I myself would ask nothing more. The trouble is that it would take an act of the World Legislature to define you as a human being. Frankly, I wouldn\rquote t expect that to happen.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote To whom on the Legislature could I speak?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote To the Chairman of the Science and Technology Committee, perhaps.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Can you arrange a meeting?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote But you scarcely need an intermediary. In your position, you can--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No. \i You\i0  arrange it.\rdblquote  It didn\rquote t even occur to Andrew that he was giving a fiat order to a human being. He had grown so accustomed to that on the Moon. \ldblquote I want him to know that the firm of Feingold and Martin is backing me in this to the hilt.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Well, now--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote To the hilt, Simon. In one hundred and seventy-three years I have in one fashion or another contributed greatly to this firm. I have been under obligation to individual members of the firm in times past. I am not, now. It is rather the other way around now and I am calling in my debts.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I will-- do what I can,\rdblquote  DeLong said. \par
\par
\pard\qc 18.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 The Chairman of the Science and Technology Committee was from the East Asian region and was a woman. Her name was Chee Li-hsing and her transparent garments-- obscuring what she wanted obscured only by their dazzle-- made her look plastic-wrapped. \ldblquote I sympathize with your wish for full human rights,\rdblquote  she said. \ldblquote There have been times in history when segments of the human population fought for full human rights. What rights, however, can you possibly want that you do not have?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote As simple a thing as my right to life,\rdblquote  Andrew stated. \ldblquote A robot can be dismantled at any time.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote A human being can be executed at any time.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Execution can only follow due process of law. There is no trial needed for my dismantling. Only the word of a human being in authority is needed to end me. Besides-- besides--\rdblquote  Andrew tried desperately to allow no sign of pleading, but his carefully designed tricks of human expression and tone of voice betrayed him here. \ldblquote The truth is I want to be a man. I have wanted it through six generations of human beings.\rdblquote\par
\tab Li-hsing looked up at him out of darkly sympathetic eyes. \ldblquote The Legislature can pass a law declaring you one. They could pass a law declaring that a stone statue be defined as a man. Whether they will actually do so is, however, as likely in the first case as the second. Congress people are as human as the rest of the population and there is always that element of suspicion against robots.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Even now?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Even now. We would all allow the fact that you have earned the prize of humanity, and yet there would remain the fear of setting an undesirable precedent.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What precedent? I am the only free robot, the only one of my type, and there will never be another. You may consult U.S. Robots.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote `Never\rquote  is a long word, Andrew-- or, if you prefer, Mr. Martin-- since I will gladly give you my personal accolade as man. You will find that most congress people will not be so willing to set the precedent, no matter how meaningless such a precedent might be. Mr. Martin, you have my sympathy, but I cannot tell you to hope. Indeed--\rdblquote\par
\tab She sat back and her forehead wrinkled. \ldblquote Indeed, if the issue grows too heated, there might well arise a certain sentiment, both inside the Legislature and out side, for that dismantling you mentioned. Doing away with you could turn out to be the easiest way of resolving the dilemma. Consider that before deciding to push matters.\rdblquote\par
\tab Andrew stood firm. \ldblquote Will no one remember the technique of prosthetology, something that is almost entirely mine?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It may seem cruel, but they won\rquote t. Or if they do, it will be remembered against you. People will say you did it only for yourself. It will be said it was part of a campaign to roboticize human beings, or to humanify robots; and in either case evil and vicious. You have never been part of a political hate campaign, Mr. Martin; but I tell you that you would be the object of vilification of a kind neither you nor I would credit, and there would be people to believe it all. Mr. Martin, let your life be.\rdblquote\par
\tab She rose, and next to Andrew\rquote s seated figure she seemed small and almost childlike.\par
\tab\ldblquote If I decide to fight for my humanity, will you be on my side?\rdblquote\par
\tab She thought, then replied, \ldblquote I will be-- insofar as I can be. If at any time such a stand would appear to threaten my political future, I might have to abandon you, since it is not an issue I feel to be at the very root of my beliefs. I am trying to be honest with you.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Thank you, and I will ask no more. I intend to fight this through, whatever the consequences, and I will ask you for your help only for as long as you can give it.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\pard\qc 19.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 It was not a direct fight. Feingold and Martin counseled patience and Andrew muttered, grimly, that he had an endless supply of that. Feingold and Martin then entered on a campaign to narrow and restrict the area of combat.\par
\tab They instituted a lawsuit denying the obligation to pay debts to an individual with a prosthetic heart on the grounds that the possession of a robotic organ removed humanity, and with it the constitutional rights of human beings. They fought the matter skillfully and tenaciously, losing at every step but always in such a way that the decision was forced to be as broad as possible, and then carrying it by way of appeals to the World Court.\par
\tab It took years, and millions of dollars.\par
\tab When the final decision was handed down, DeLong held what amounted to a victory celebration over the legal loss. Andrew was, of course, present in the company offices on the occasion.\par
\tab\ldblquote We\rquote ve done two things, Andrew,\rdblquote  said DeLong, \ldblquote both of which are good. First of all, we have established the fact that no number of artificial parts in the human body causes it to cease being a human body. Secondly, we have engaged public opinion in the question in such a way as to put it fiercely on the side of a broad interpretation of humanity, since there is not a human being in existence who does not hope for prosthetics if they will keep him alive.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote And do you think the Legislature will now grant me my humanity?\rdblquote  Andrew asked.\par
\tab DeLong looked faintly uncomfortable. \ldblquote As to that, I cannot be optimistic. There remains the one organ which the World Court has used as the criterion of humanity. Human beings have an organic cellular brain and robots have a platinum iridium positronic brain if they have one at all-- and you certainly have a positronic brain. No, Andrew, don\rquote t get that look in your eye. We lack the knowledge to duplicate the work of a cellular brain in artificial structures close enough to the organic type as to allow it to fall within the court\rquote s decision. Not even you could do it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What should we do, then?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Make the attempt, of course. Congresswoman Li-hsing will be on our side and a growing number of other congress people. The President will undoubtedly go along with a majority of the Legislature in this matter.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Do we have a majority?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No. Far from it. But we might get one if the public will allow its desire for a broad interpretation of humanity to extend to you. A small chance, I admit; but if you do not wish to give up, we must gamble for it.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I do not wish to give up.\rdblquote  \par
\par
\pard\qc 20.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 Congresswoman Li-hsing was considerably older than she had been when Andrew had first met her. Her transparent garments were long gone. Her hair was now close-cropped and her coverings were tubular. Yet still Andrew clung, as closely as he could within the limits of reasonable taste, to the style of clothing that had prevailed when he had first adopted clothing more than a century before.\par
\tab\ldblquote We\rquote ve gone as far as we can, Andrew,\rdblquote  Li-hsing admitted. \ldblquote We\rquote ll try once more after recess, but, to be honest, defeat is certain and then the whole thing will have to be given up. All my most recent efforts have only earned me certain defeat in the coming congressional campaign.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I know,\rdblquote  said Andrew, \ldblquote and it distressed me. You said once you would abandon me if it came to that. Why have you not done so?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote One can change one\rquote s mind, you know. Somehow, abandoning you became a higher price than I cared to pay for just one more term. As it is, I\rquote ve been in the Legislature , for over a quarter of a century. It\rquote s enough.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Is there no way we can change minds, Chee?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote We\rquote ve changed all that are amenable to reason. The rest-- the majority-- cannot be moved from their emotional antipathies.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Emotional antipathy is not a valid reason for voting one way or the other.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I know that, Andrew, but they don\rquote t advance emotional antipathy as their reason.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It all comes down to the brain, then,\rdblquote  Andrew said cautiously. \ldblquote But must we leave it at the level of cells versus positrons? Is there no way of forcing a functional definition? Must we say that a brain is made of this or that? May we not say that a brain is something-- anything-- capable of a certain level of thought?\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote Won\rquote t work,\rdblquote  said Li-hsing. \ldblquote Your brain is manmade, the human brain is not. Your brain is constructed, theirs developed. To any human being who is intent on keeping up the barrier between himself and a robot, those differences are a steel wall a mile high and a mile thick.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote If we could get at the source of their antipathy, the very source--\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote After all your years,\rdblquote  Li-hsing said, sadly, \ldblquote you are still trying to reason out the human being. Poor Andrew, don\rquote t be angry, but it\rquote s the robot in you that drives you in that direction.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I don\rquote t know,\rdblquote  said Andrew. \ldblquote If I could bring myself--\rdblquote  \par
\par
\pard\qc 1. (Reprise)\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 If he could bring himself--\par
\tab He had known for a long time it might come to that, and in the end he was at the surgeon\rquote s. He had found one, skillful enough for the job at hand-- which meant a surgeon-- robot, for no human surgeon could be trusted in this connection, either in ability or in intention.\par
\tab The surgeon could not have performed the operation on a human being, so Andrew, after putting off the moment of decision with a sad line of questioning that reflected the turmoil within himself, had put First Law to one side by saying \ldblquote I, too, am a robot.\rdblquote\par
\tab He then said, as firmly as he had learned to form the words even at human beings over these past decades, \ldblquote I \i order\i0  you to carry through the operation on me.\rdblquote\par
\tab In the absence of the First Law, an order so firmly given from one who looked so much like a man activated the Second Law sufficiently to carry the day. \par
\par
\pard\qc 21.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 Andrew\rquote s feeling of weakness was, he was sure, quite imaginary. He had recovered from the-- operation. Nevertheless, he leaned, as unobtrusively as he could manage, against the wall. It would be entirely too revealing to sit.\par
\tab Li-hsing said, \ldblquote The final vote will come this week, Andrew. I\rquote ve been able to delay it no longer, and we must lose. And that will be it, Andrew.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote I am grateful for your skill at delay. It gave me the time I needed, and I took the gamble I had to.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What gamble is this?\rdblquote  Li-hsing asked with open concern.\par
\tab\ldblquote I couldn\rquote t tell you, or even the people at Feingold and Martin. I was sure I would be stopped. See here, if it is the brain that is at issue, isn\rquote t the greatest difference of all the matter of immortality. Who really cares what a brain looks like or is built of or how it was formed. What matters is that human brain cells die; \i must\i0  die. Even if every other organ in the body is maintained or replaced, the brain cells, which cannot be replaced without changing and therefore killing the personality, must eventually die.\par
\tab\ldblquote My own positronic pathways have lasted nearly two centuries without perceptible change, and can last for centuries more. Isn\rquote t \i that\i0  the fundamental barrier? Human beings can tolerate an immortal robot, for it doesn\rquote t matter how long a machine lasts, but they cannot tolerate an immortal human being since their own mortality is endurable only so long as it is universal. And for that reason they won\rquote t make me a human being.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote What is it you\rquote re leading up to, Andrew?\rdblquote  Li-hsing asked.\par
\tab\ldblquote I have removed that problem. Decades ago, my positronic brain was connected to organic nerves. Now, one last operation has arranged that connection in such a way that slowly-- quite slowly-- the potential is being drained from my pathways.\rdblquote\par
\tab Li-hsing\rquote s finely wrinkled face showed no expression for a moment. Then her lips tightened. \ldblquote Do you mean you\rquote ve arranged to die, Andrew? You can\rquote t have. That violates the Third Law.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  said Andrew, \ldblquote I have chosen between the death of my body and the death of my aspirations and desires. To have let my body live at the cost of the greater death is what would have violated the Third Law.\rdblquote\par
\tab Li-hsing seized his arm as though she were about to shake him. She stopped herself. \ldblquote Andrew, it won\rquote t work! Change it back.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote It can\rquote t be done. Too much damage was done. I have a year to live more or less. I will last through the two-hundredth anniversary of my construction. I was weak enough to arrange that.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote How can it be worth it? Andrew, you\rquote re a fool.\rdblquote\par
\tab\ldblquote If it brings me humanity, that will be worth it. If it doesn\rquote t, it will bring an end to striving and that will be worth it, too.\rdblquote\par
\tab Then Li-hsing did something that astonished herself. Quietly, she began to weep. \par
\par
\pard\qc 22.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 It was odd how that last deed caught the imagination of the world. All that Andrew had done before had not swayed them. But he had finally accepted even death to be human, and the sacrifice was too great to be rejected.\par
\tab The final ceremony was timed, quite deliberately, for the two hundredth anniversary. The World President was to sign the act and make the people\rquote s will law. The ceremony would be visible on a global network and would be beamed to the Lunar state and even to the Martian colony.\par
\tab Andrew was in a wheelchair. He could still walk, but only shakily.\par
\tab With mankind watching, the World President said, \ldblquote Fifty years ago, you were declared The Sesquicentennial Robot, Andrew.\rdblquote  After a pause, and in a more solemn tone, he continued, \ldblquote Today we declare you The Bicentennial Man, Mr. Martin.\rdblquote\par
\tab And Andrew, smiling, held out his hand to shake that of the President. \par
\par
\pard\qc 23.\par
\pard\f3\par
\tab\f0 Andrew\rquote s thoughts were slowly fading as he lay in bed. Desperately he seized at them. Man! He was a man!\par
\tab He wanted that to be his last thought. He wanted to dissolve-- die with that.\par
\tab He opened his eyes one more time and for one last time recognized Li-hsing, waiting solemnly. Others were there, but they were only shadows, unrecognizable shadows. Only Li-hsing stood out against the deepening gray.\par
\tab Slowly, inchingly, he held out his hand to her and very dimly and faintly felt her take it.\par
\tab She was fading in his eyes as the last of his thoughts trickled away. But before she faded completely, one final fugitive thought came to him and rested for a moment on his mind before everything stopped.\par
\tab\ldblquote Little Miss,\rdblquote  he whispered, too low to be heard. \par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\b\i\f3\fs28\page\f2 A Last Word\par
\pard\b0\i0\f3\fs20\par
\f0 To those of you who have read some (or, possibly, all) of my robot stories before, I welcome your loyalty and patience.  To those of you who have not, I hope this book has given you pleasure--and I\rquote m pleased to have met you--and I hope we meet again soon.\par
\par
\f1\par
\pard\f4\par
}
 