{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\qc\lang1033\f0\fs28 ISAAC ASIMOV'S\par
Magical Worlds of Fantasy\fs72\par
FAERIES\fs24\par
\pard\par
\fs2\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-4\fs20 Copyright \'a9 1991 by Nightfall, Inc., \expndtw-3 Martin Greenberg, and Charles G. Waugh.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\li648\sb216\sl-216\slmult0\cf1 This edition published by\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi552\li278\sb5\sl-216\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-4 Barnes & Noble, Inc., by arrangement with Tekno-Books.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\li34\sb226\sl-216\slmult0\qc\cf1\expndtw-1 All rights reserved. No part of this book\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\li38\sl-216\slmult0\qc\cf1 may be used or reproduced in any\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\li34\sl-216\slmult0\qc\cf1 manner whatsoever without written\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\li29\sb5\sl-216\slmult0\qc\cf1\expndtw-2 permission of the Publisher.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\li590\sb206\cf1\expndtw-5 2000 Barnes & Noble Books\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\li552\sb643\cf1\expndtw-11 ISBN 0-7607-2369-9 \i paperback\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\li701\ri365\sb216\sl-216\slmult0\cf1 Printed and bound in the \expndtw-3 United States of America\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\li168\sb216\cf1\expndtw11 00 01 02 03 MP 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\li72\sb432\qc\cf1 BVG\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri67\qc\cf1\expndtw-8\fs46 CONTENTS\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi-250\li250\sb1085\sl-264\slmult0\tx5141\cf1\expndtw-5\i\fs27 Introduction: Fairyland\line\i0 by Isaac Asimov\expndtw0\tab 1\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi-245\li250\sb178\sl-269\slmult0\tx5131\cf1\expndtw-3\i\fs27 How the Fairies Came to Ireland\line\i0 by Herminie Templeton\expndtw0\tab 4\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi-221\li250\sb163\sl-269\slmult0\tx5030\cf1\expndtw-1\i\fs27 The Manor of Roses\line\expndtw-3\i0 by Thomas Burnett Swann\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 15\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi-221\li250\sb168\sl-269\slmult0\tx5016\cf1\expndtw-5\i\fs27 The Fairy Prince\line\expndtw1\i0 by H. C. Bailey\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 79\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi-230\li259\sb168\sl-269\slmult0\tx5021\cf1\expndtw-3\i\fs27 The Ugly Unicorn\line\expndtw-4\i0 by Jessica Amanda Salmonson\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 93\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi-226\li259\sb173\sl-264\slmult0\tx4920\cf1\expndtw-1\i\fs27 The Brownie of the Black Haggs\line\expndtw-3\i0 by James Hogg\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-25 105\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi-221\li259\sb173\sl-269\slmult0\tx4920\cf1\expndtw4\i\fs27 The Dream of Akinosuk\lang1024\'e9\line\lang1033\expndtw-2\i0 by Lafadio Hearn\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-25 121\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi-240\li259\sb154\sl-274\slmult0\tx4920\cf1\expndtw-5\i\fs27 Elfinland\line\expndtw-3\i0 by Johann Ludwig Tieck\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 128\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi-245\li269\sb178\sl-264\slmult0\tx4930\cf1\i\fs27 Darby O'Gill and the Good People\line\expndtw-3\i0 by Herminie Templeton\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-22 148\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi-250\li250\sl-264\slmult0\tx4910\cf1\expndtw4\i\fs27 No Man's Land\line\expndtw-2\i0 by John Buchan\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-27 161\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi-221\li254\sb182\sl-264\slmult0\tx4901\cf1\expndtw-4\i\fs27 The Prism\line\expndtw-2\i0 by Mary E. Wilkins\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 208\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi-226\li264\sb182\sl-264\slmult0\tx4906\cf1\expndtw1\i\fs27 The Kith of the Elf-Folk\line\expndtw-2\i0 by Lord Dunsany\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 220\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi-226\li269\sb173\sl-269\slmult0\tx4910\cf1\expndtw-6\i\fs27 The Secret Place\line\expndtw-3\i0 by Richard McKenna\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 235\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi-226\li274\sb178\sl-264\slmult0\tx4915\cf1\expndtw1\i\fs27 The King of the Elves\line\expndtw-1\i0 by Philip K. Dick\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 252\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi-245\li274\sb178\sl-264\slmult0\tx4920\cf1\expndtw-5\i\fs27 Flying Pan\line\expndtw1\i0 by Robert F. Young\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 274\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi-245\li278\sb173\sl-269\slmult0\tx4925\cf1\expndtw-5\i\fs27 My\i0  \i Father, the Cat\line\expndtw-2\i0 by Henry Slesar\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 284\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li43\sb110\cf1\expndtw10\i\fs31 Kid Stuff\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li283\tx4930\cf1\expndtw-4\fs27 by Isaac Asimov\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 292\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi-226\li293\sb163\sl-269\slmult0\tx4939\cf1\i\fs27 The Long Night of Waiting\line\i0 by Andre Norton\tab\expndtw-19 307\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi-226\li298\sb168\sl-269\slmult0\tx4944\cf1\i\fs27 The Queen of Air and Darkness\line\expndtw-1\i0 by Poul Anderson\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-20 325\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li14\cf1\expndtw-5\fs45 FAIRYLAND\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb221\cf1\expndtw-6\i\fs35 Isaac Asimov\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li19\ri48\sb1493\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Fantasies or folk tales thought to be suitable for children \expndtw1 are often called "fairy tales," partly because the most \expndtw0 famous of these stories involve entities of more-than-human powers, called fairies.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The most famous of all, for instance, is the "fairy god\-\expndtw-1 mother" who conies to the rescue of poor, persecuted Cinderella. This is a story that has filled countless chil\-\expndtw0 dren with the vague desire and the perceived need for a \expndtw-1 fairy godmother of their own. There are also evil fairies, \expndtw1 such as the spiteful one who wasn't invited (through a \expndtw5 mere oversight) to a princess's christening and who \expndtw0 placed her under a curse that led her to becoming the \expndtw-2 Sleeping Beauty.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 The result is that we have many pictures of fairies, \expndtw1 some of them drawn from Disney cartoons. The good \expndtw-2 fairies look like kindly and rather bumbling housewives; the bad fairies like ugly crones, indistinguishable from \expndtw-3 witches. We have the Blue Fairy in \i Pinocchio \i0 and Titania \expndtw-2 in \i A Midsummer Night's Dream \i0 who look like beautiful \expndtw-1 actresses, as well as Titania's husband Oberon, who is a \expndtw2 powerful (but fundamentally good-hearted) monarch. \expndtw1 Most of all, we have a modern conception of fairies as \expndtw-1 tiny creatures, no bigger than a thumb, with gauzy little \expndtw1 butterfly-wings, like Tinkerbell in \i Peter Pan. \i0 So strong \expndtw-1 is this particular version that earlier in this century some \expndtw-2 mischievous girls made paper representations of such \expndtw-1 diminutive fairies, took photographs of them, and fooled Arthur Conan Doyle into believing them to be authentic. \expndtw4 (Conan Doyle wrote the Sherlock Holmes stories, but\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri72\qc\cf1\expndtw3\i\fs21 Isaac Asimov\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 his hold on reality, at least in later life, was not very \expndtw-1 strong.)\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 But what \i are \i0 fairies? How did they get started?\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li5\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 To begin with, the original word had a form that was \expndtw-3 closest to our modern "fay." This word, fay, derives from \expndtw6 Latin words meaning "faith" or "fate," so it bears a \expndtw-2 strong mystical connotation. We still say that someone is \expndtw-1 "fey" when they seem to have sense perceptions beyond \expndtw1 the ordinary.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 The land of the fays, the region in which they live, is "faerie," the "-rie" suffix being an archaic way of saying \expndtw1 "land of." Because "faerie" has dropped out of con\-\expndtw0 sciousness these days, it has become "fairy." Neverthe\-\expndtw-1 less, this collection of stories is called \i Faeries \i0 because \expndtw-2 many of them are deliberately written in archaic fashion, \expndtw2 and because "fairy" has gained a slang meaning these \expndtw-1 days that is far removed from what \i we \i0 are talking about.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Of course, "fairy" does not have any form that indi\-\expndtw-2 cates it is referring to the place in which fays live; there\-\expndtw0 fore it has become synonymous with fay, and the region in which fays, or fairies, live is now called "fairyland." \expndtw-1 This gives us two suffixes meaning the same thing, but \expndtw2 we're stuck with that.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 And what gave us the idea that fairies exist? The least dramatic explanation (and, therefore, the one most likely to be true) is that they are a holdover from the old nature \expndtw-2 spirits that filled the woods and fields\emdash the nymphs and \expndtw-1 satyrs who represented the procreative powers of nature. \expndtw4 In their place, we now have fairies, elves, brownies, \expndtw0 trolls, kobolds, gnomes and other spirits that appear in \expndtw-2 various cultures and with powers and characteristics that \expndtw1 vary from storyteller to storyteller.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Are there more dramatic explanations? Of course.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li53\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 By and large, these spirits, whatever they are called, and we might as well lump them all together as fairies, \expndtw0 are viewed as smaller than ordinary human beings, as \expndtw2 hidden and elusive, as generally malignant, and fre\-\expndtw1 quently, as having longings to be human.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 History is full of cases in which conquering invaders attack the natives of a region (sometimes of smaller size than the newcomers) and force them back into mountain \expndtw2 fastnesses or hidden regions. In this way, the Celts beat\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3168\cf1\expndtw-8\fs23 FAIRYLAND\expndtw0\tab 3\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri48\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 back the Picts in Scotland, the Saxons beat back the \expndtw2 Welsh, the Indo-Europeans beat back the Basques of \expndtw0 Spain, and so on. There would be a dim memory of the \expndtw-1 time when the defeated people were not yet completely \expndtw-2 eradicated; when they engaged in guerrilla activity, and \expndtw3 raided isolated outposts of the conquerors. The stories \expndtw2 of the "little people" arose and, of course, were fanta\-\expndtw1 sized out of all recognition as time went on. Undoubt\-\expndtw0 edly, Americans of European descent would have had \expndtw-1 similar stories to tell about Native Americans, if the per\-\expndtw2 secution and eradication of the latter had not happened \expndtw-1 so recently, and, so to speak, in the full glare of written \expndtw-3 history.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Perhaps the most dramatic version of this theory (and, \expndtw8 therefore, the least likely to be true) is that the tales \expndtw-2 of fairies hark all the way back to the elimination of \expndtw-1 Neanderthal man by "modern man," some thirty to fifty \expndtw-2 thousand years ago. Neanderthals were smaller than our\-selves in height but stronger in musculature, and perhaps \expndtw-1 that is the source of the "little people" with their fright\-ening power.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 In any case, it is important to remember that the best-\expndtw1 known fairies of modern times are sanitized ones pre\-\expndtw0 pared for our children. Unlike these kindly fairy god\-\expndtw1 mothers and flitting little Tinkerbells, fairies, in their \expndtw-2 original conception, were dangerous and frightening enti\-\expndtw-1 ties, and faerie, or fairyland, was a place that mingled \expndtw3 wonder, awe, and terror in equal quantities.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Some of the stories in this collection are humorous; \expndtw-2 notably the two by Kavanaugh and the one by Philip K. \expndtw-1 Dick. Others are sentimental. Most, however, are grimly \expndtw2 powerful in their portrayal of different and fundamen\-\expndtw-1 tally hostile cultures. I call your attention particularly to \expndtw4 Swann's "The Manor of Roses," which is the longest \expndtw2 story in the book and, in my opinion, the most riveting. \expndtw0 It is a medieval tale of authentic atmosphere, and its \expndtw-2 description of the "mandrakes" is almost science fictional \expndtw2 in its intensity. Though I enjoyed that story the most, I \expndtw4 can say that each story offers to the reader rewards of \expndtw-2 its own.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sl-398\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs45 HOW THE FAIRIES CAME \expndtw2 TO IRELAND\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb250\cf1\expndtw-5\i\fs35 Herminie Templeton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li24\ri48\sb1099\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The most lonesome bridle-path in all Ireland leads from \expndtw2 Tom Healy's cottage down the sides of the hills, along \expndtw3 the edge of the valley, till it raiches the highroad that \expndtw1 skirts the great mountain, Sleive-na-mon.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 One blusthering, unaisy night, Father Cassidy, on his way home from a sick call, rode over that same path. It \expndtw-1 wasn't strange that the priest, as his horse ambled along, should be thinking of that other night in Darby O'Gill's \expndtw1 kitchen\emdash the night when he met with the Good People; \expndtw0 for there, off to the left, towered and threatened Sleive-\expndtw3 na-mon, the home of the fairies.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li43\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The dismal ould mountain glowered toward his River-\expndtw2 ence, its dark look saying, plain as spoken words:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "How dare ye come here; how dare ye?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "I wondher," says Father Cassidy to himself, looking \expndtw7 up at the black hill, "if the Good People are fallen \expndtw1 angels, as some do be saying.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li58\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Why were they banished from heaven? It must have \expndtw0 been a great sin entirely they committed, at any rate, for \expndtw2 at the same time they were banished the power to make \expndtw-1 a prayer was taken from them. That's why to say a pious \expndtw1 word to a fairy is like trowing scalding wather on him. '\expndtw2 Tis a hard pinnance that's put on the poor crachures. I \expndtw3 wisht I knew what 'twas for," he says.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li67\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 He was goin' on pondherin' in that way, while Terror \expndtw-2 was picking his steps, narvous, among the stones of the \expndtw2 road, whin suddenly a frowning, ugly rock seemed to \expndtw5 jump up and stand ferninst them at a turn of the path.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li283\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 Terror shied at it, stumbled wild, and thin the most\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li82\sb101\qc\cf1\f1 4\cf0\f0\par
\pard\cbpat2\li571\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 HOW THE FAIRIES CAME TO IRELAND        5\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 aggrewating of all bothersome things happened\emdash the \expndtw-1 horse cast a shoe and wint stone lame.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 In a second the priest had leaped to the ground and \expndtw-2 picked up the horseshoe.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "Wirra! Wirra!" says he, lifting the lame foot, "why \expndtw0 did you do it, allannah? 'Tis five miles to a smith an' \expndtw-2 seven miles to your own warm stable."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li5\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 The horse, for answer, raiched down an' touched with his soft nose the priest's cheek; but the good man looked rayproachful into the big brown eyes that turned sorrow\-\expndtw-2 ful to his own.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li10\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 With the shoe in his hand the priest was standin' fret\-\expndtw-5 ting and helpless on the lonesome hillside, wondhering \expndtw-4 what he'd do at all at all, whin a sudden voice spoke up \expndtw-2 from somewhere near Terror's knees.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "The top of the avinin' to your Riverence," it said; \expndtw-1 "I'm sorry for your bad luck," says the voice.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-7\fs24 Looking down, Father Cassidy saw a little cloaked fig\-\expndtw-4 ure, and caught the glint of a goold crown. 'Twas Brian \expndtw-2 Connors, the king of the fairies, himself, that was in it.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 His words had so friendly a ring in them that the clar-\expndtw-6 gyman smiled in answering, "Why, thin, good fortune to \expndtw-5 you, King Brian Connors," says the good man, "an' save \expndtw-2 you kindly. What wind brought you here?" he says.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li34\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 The king spoke back free an' pleasant. "The boys tould \expndtw-1 me you were comin' down the mountainy way, and I \expndtw0 came up just in time to see your misfortune. I've sent \expndtw-4 for Shaun Rhue, our own farrier\emdash there's no betther in \expndtw-3 Ireland; he'll be here in a minute, so don't worry," says the king.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li38\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 The priest came so near saying "God bless ye," that \expndtw2 the king's hair riz on his head. But Father Cassidy \expndtw0 stopped in the nick of time, changed his coorse, an' \expndtw-5 steered as near a blessing as he could without hurting the \expndtw-1 Master of the Good People.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li43\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "Well, may you never hear of trouble," he says, "till \expndtw-1 you're wanted to its wake," says he.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 "There's no trouble to-night at any rate," says the \expndtw-5 king, "for while Shaun is fixing the baste we'll sit in the \expndtw-1 shelter of that rock yonder; there we'll light our pipes \expndtw-6 and divart our minds with pleasant discoorsin' and wise \expndtw-5 convarsaytion."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1728\cf1\fs24 6\tab\expndtw2\i Hermime Templeton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri62\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 While the king spoke, two green-cloaked little men \expndtw-3 were making a fire for the smith out of twigs. So quick \expndtw-2 did they work, that by the time the priest and the fairy \expndtw-3 man could walk over to the stone and sit themselves in \expndtw-5 the shelther, a thousand goold sparks were dancin' in the \expndtw-6 wind, and the glimmer of a foine blaze fought with the \expndtw-7 darkness.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 Almost as soon, clear and purty, rang the cheerful \expndtw-4 sound of an anvil, and through the swaying shadows a \expndtw-5 dozen busy little figures were working about the horse. \expndtw-3 Some wore leather aprons and hilt up the horse's hoof \expndtw-2 whilst Shaun fitted the red hot shoe; others blew the \expndtw-6 bellows or piled fresh sticks on the fire; all joking, laugh\-\expndtw-4 ing, singing, or thrickin'; one couldn't tell whether 'twas \expndtw-3 playing or workin' they were.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li38\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Afther lighting their pipes and paying aich other an \expndtw-3 armful of complayments, the Master of Sleive-na-mon \expndtw-5 and the clargyman began a sayrious discoorse about the \expndtw-3 deloights of fox hunting, which led to the consideration \expndtw-6 of the wondherful wisdom of racing horses and the dis\-graceful day-ter-ray-roar-ation of the Skibberbeg hounds.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Father Cassidy related how whin Ned Blaze's stee-\expndtw-3 plechasin' horse had been entered for the Connemarra Cup, an' found out at the last minute that Ned feared to \expndtw-4 lay a bet on him, the horse felt himself so stabbed to the \expndtw-3 heart with shame by his master's disthrust, that he trew \expndtw-6 his jockey, jumped the wall, an', head in the air, galloped \expndtw-5 home.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 The king then tould how at a great hunting meet, whin \expndtw-2 three magistrates an' two head excises officers were in \expndtw1 the chase, that thief of the worruld, Let-Erin-Ray-\expndtw-5 mimber, the chief hound of the Skibberbeg pack, instead \expndtw-6 of follying the fox, led the whole hunt up over the moun\-\expndtw-3 tain to Patrick McCaffrey's private still. The entire \expndtw-2 counthryside were dhry for a fornit afther.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li72\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Their talk in that way dhrifted from one pleasant sub\-\expndtw-6 ject to another, till Father Cassidy, the sly man, says aisy \expndtw-3 an' careless, "I've been tould," says he, "that before the \expndtw-5 Good People were banished from heaven yez were all \expndtw-3 angels," he says.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li86\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 The king blew a long thin cloud from be wixt his lips, \expndtw-2 felt his whuskers thoughtful for a minute, and said:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li576\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 HOW THE FAIRIES CAME TO IRELAND        7\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri72\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "No," he says, "we were not exactly what you might \expndtw-1 call angels. A rale angel is taller nor your chapel."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri67\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 "Will you tell me what they're like?" axed Father Cas-\expndtw-5 sidy, very curious.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li10\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "I'll give you an idee be comparison what they're like," the king says. "They're not like a chapel, and \expndtw-2 they're not like a three, an' they're not like the ocean," \expndtw-4 says he. "They're different from a goint\emdash a great dale \expndtw-2 different\emdash and they're dissembler to an aygle; in fact \expndtw-3 you'd not mistake one of them for anything you'd ever \expndtw-2 seen before in your whole life. Now you have a purty \expndtw-1 good ideeah what they're like," says he.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 "While I think of it," says the fairy man, a vexed frown \expndtw-5 wrinkling over his forehead, "there's three young bache\-\expndtw-6 lors in your own parish that have a foolish habit of callin' \expndtw-5 their colleens angels whin they's not the laste likeness\emdash  \expndtw-2 not the laste. If I were you, I'd preach ag'in it," says he.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "Oh, I dunno about that!" says Father Cassidy, fitting a live coal on his pipe. "The crachures \i must \i0 say thim \expndtw-6 things. If a young bachelor only talks sensible to a sensi\-\expndtw-4 ble colleen he has a good chanst to stay a bachelor. An thin ag'in, a gossoon who'll talk to his sweetheart about \expndtw-5 the size of the petatie crop'll maybe bate her whin they're \expndtw-6 both married. But this has nothing to do with your histor\-\expndtw-2 ical obserwaytions. Go on, King," he says.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "Well, I hate foolishness, wherever it is," says the \expndtw-5 fairy. "Howsumever, as I was saying, up there in heaven \expndtw0 they called us the Little People," he says; "millions of \expndtw-5 us flocked together, and I was the king of them all. We \expndtw-3 were happy with one another as birds of the same nest, \expndtw-2 till the ruction came on betwixt the black and the white\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\ri10\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "How it all started I never rightly knew, nor wouldn't ask for fear of getting implicayted. I bade all the Little \expndtw-2 People keep to themselves thin, because we had plenty \expndtw-1 of friends in both parties, and wanted throuble with \expndtw-2 nayther of them.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "I knew ould Nick well; a civiler, pleasanter spoken \expndtw-6 sowl you couldn't wish to meet\emdash a little too sweet in his ways, maybe. He gave a thousand favors and civilities to \expndtw-1 my subjects, and now that he's down, the devil a word I'll\expndtw-3  say ag'in him."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1728\cf1\fs23 8\tab\expndtw-2\i Herminie Templeton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri82\sb211\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "I'm ag'in him," says Father Cassidy, looking very stern; "I'm ag'in him an' all his pumps an' worruks. I'll \expndtw-3 go bail that in the ind he hurt yez more than he helped \expndtw-2 yez."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri58\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "Only one thing I blame him for," says the king; "he sajooced from the Little People my comrade and best \expndtw-2 friend, one Thaddeus Flynn be name. And the way that \expndtw0 it was, was this. Thaddeus was a warm-hearted little \expndtw-6 man, but monsthrous high-spirited as well as quick-tem\-\expndtw-4 pered. I can shut me eyes now, and in me mind see him \expndtw-5 thripping along, his head bent, his pipe in his mouth, his \expndtw-3 hands behind his back. He never wore a waistcoat, but \expndtw-6 kept always his green body-coat buttoned. A tall caubeen \expndtw-5 was set on the back of his head, with a sprig of green \expndtw-3 shamrock in the band. There was a thin rim of black \expndtw-2 whiskers undher his chin."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li38\ri43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Father Cassidy, liftin' both hands in wondher, said: "If I hadn't baptized him, and buried his good father before \expndtw-5 him, I'd swear 'twas Michael Pether McGilligan of this \expndtw-2 parish you were dayscribin'," says he.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "The McGilligans ain't dacint enough, nor rayfined \expndtw-3 enough, nor proud enough to be fairies," says the king, \expndtw-4 wavin' his pipe scornful. "But to raysume and to con\-\expndtw-1 tinue," he says.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "Thaddeus and I used to frayquint a place they called \expndtw-2 the battlements or parypets\emdash which was a great goold \expndtw-6 wall about the edge of heaven, and which had wide steps \expndtw-4 down on the outside face, where one could sit, pleasant avenings, and hang his feet over, or where one'd stand \expndtw-1 before going to take a fly in the fresh air for himself.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li62\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "Well, agra, the night before the great battle, Thady \expndtw-4 and I were sitting on the lowest step, looking down into \expndtw-2 league upon league of nothing, and talking about the \expndtw-6 world, which was suxty thousand miles below, and hell, \expndtw-5 which was tunty thousand miles below that ag'in, when who should come blusthering over us, his black wings \expndtw-4 hiding the sky, and a long streak of lightning for a spear in\expndtw-1  his fist, but Ould Nick.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li77\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 " 'Brian Connors, how long are you going to be \expndtw-5 downthrodden and thrajooced and looked down upon\emdash  \expndtw-2 you and your subjects?' says he.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li566\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 HOW THE FAIRIES CAME TO IRELAND       9\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri48\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 " 'Faix, thin, who's doing that to us?' asks Thady, \expndtw-4 standing up and growing excited.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 " 'Why,' says Ould Nick, 'were you made little pigmies \expndtw-5 to be the laugh and the scorn and the mock of the whole world?' he says, very mad; 'why weren't you made into \expndtw-1 angels, like the rest of us?' he says.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li278\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 " 'Musha,' cries Thady, 'I never thought of that.'\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 " 'Are you a man or a mouse; will you fight for your \expndtw-2 rights?' says Sattin. 'If so, come with me and be one of us. For we'll bate them black and blue to-morrow,' he \expndtw-3 says. Thady needed no second axing.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li10\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 " 'I'll go with ye, Sattin, me dacent man,' cried he. \expndtw-4 'Wirra! Wirra! To think of how downthrodden we are!' \expndtw-7 And with one spring Thady was on Ould Nick's chowld-\expndtw-2 ers, and the two flew away like a humming-bird riding \expndtw-1 on the back of an aygle.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri24\sb5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 " 'Take care of yerself, Brian,' says Thady, 'and come \expndtw2 over to see the fight; I'm to be in it, and I extind you \expndtw-2 the inwitation,' he says.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "In the morning the battle opened; one line of black \expndtw-4 angels stretched clear across heaven, and faced another \expndtw-3 line of white angels, with a walley between.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "Every one had a spaking trumpet in his hand, like \expndtw-4 you see in the pictures, and they called aich other hard \expndtw-3 names across the walley. As the white angels couldn't \expndtw-1 swear or use bad langwidge, Ould Nick's army had at \expndtw-4 first in that way a great advantage. But when it came to \expndtw-1 hurling hills and shying tunderbolts at aich other, the \expndtw-2 black angels were bate from the first.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li24\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "Poor little Thaddeus Flynn stood amongst his own, in \expndtw-2 the dust and the crash and the roar, brave as a lion. He \expndtw-4 couldn't hurl mountains, nor was he much at flinging \expndtw-3 lightning bolts, but at calling hard names he was ayquil \expndtw1 to the best.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "I saw him take off his coat, trow it on the ground, and shake his pipe at a thraymendous angel. 'You owdacious \expndtw-4 villain,' he cried. 'I dare you to come half way over,' he says."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "My, oh my, whin the armies met together in the rale \expndtw-3 handy grips, it must have been an illigent sight," says \expndtw2 Father Cassidy. " 'Tis a wondher you kep' out of it," \expndtw-6 says he.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\tx1723\cf1\expndtw-25\fs23 10\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Herminie Templeton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri53\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "I always belayved," says the king, "that if he can help \expndtw5 it, no one should fight whin he's sure to get hurted, \expndtw4 onless it's his juty to fight. To fight for the mere sport \expndtw3 of it, when a throuncin' is sartin, is wasting your time \expndtw0 and hurtin' your repitation. I know there's plenty thinks \expndtw2 different," he says, p'inting his pipe. "I may be wrong, \expndtw1 an' I won't argyfy the matther. 'Twould have been bet-\expndtw4 ther for myself that day if I had acted on the other \expndtw-3 principle.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Howsumever, be the time that everybody was side\-stepping mountains and dodging tunderbolts, I says to \expndtw2 myself, says I, 'This is no place fer you or the likes of \expndtw0 you.' So I took all me own people out to the battlements \expndtw4 and hid them out of the way on the lower steps. We'd \expndtw-2 no sooner got placed whin\emdash whish! a black angel shot \expndtw-1 through the air over our heads, and began falling down, \expndtw-2 down, and down, till he was out of sight. Then a score of his friends came tumbling over the battlements; imagetly \expndtw-1 hundreds of others came whirling, and purty soon it was \expndtw1 raining black wings down into the gulf.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 "In the midst of the turmile, who should come jumping \expndtw4 down to me, all out of breath, but Thady.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 " 'It's all over, Brian; we're bate scandalous,' he says, \expndtw-2 swinging his arms for a spring and balancing himself up \expndtw-1 and down on the edge of the steps. 'Maybe you wouldn't \expndtw3 think it of me, Brian Connors; but I'm a fallen angel,' \expndtw-1 says he.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi288\li43\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 " 'Wait a bit, Thaddeus Flynn!' says I. 'Don't jump,' \expndtw-2 I says.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li317\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 " 'I must jump,' he says, 'or I'll be trun,' says he.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "The next thing I knew he was swirling and darting \expndtw1 and shooting a mile below me.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "And I know," says the king, wiping his eyes with his \expndtw2 cloak, "that when the Day of Judgment comes I'll have \expndtw-1 at laste one friend waiting for me below to show me the \expndtw1 coolest spots and the pleasant places.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "The next minute up came the white army with pres-\expndtw-2 ners\emdash angels, black and white, who had taken no side in \expndtw3 the battle, but had stood apart like ourselves.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 " 'A man,' says the Angel Gabriel, 'who, for fear of \expndtw1 his skin, won't stand for the right when the right is in \expndtw0 danger, may not desarve hell, but he's not fit for heaven.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li576\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 HOW THE FAIRIES CAME TO IRELAND      11\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Fill up the stars with these cowards and throw the lavin's \expndtw4 into the say,' he ordhered.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri67\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "With that he swung a lad in the air, and gave him a \expndtw-1 fling that sent him ten miles out intil the sky. Every other \expndtw3 good angel follyed shuit, and I watched thousands go, \expndtw1 till they faded like a stretch of black smoke a hundred \expndtw-3 miles below.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "The Angel Gabriel turned and saw me, and I must \expndtw-1 confess I shivered.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 " 'Well, King Brian Connors,' says he, 'I hope you see \expndtw1 that there's such a thing as being too wise and too cute \expndtw-1 and too ticklish of yourself. I can't send you to the stars, \expndtw1 bekase they're full, and I won't send you to the bottom\-\expndtw0 less pit so long as I can help it. I'll send yez all down to \expndtw1 the world. We're going to put human beans on it purty soon, though they're going to turn out to be blaggards, \expndtw3 and at last we'll have to burn the place up. Afther that, \expndtw0 if you're still there, you and yours must go to purdition, \expndtw3 for it's the only place left for you.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 " 'You're too hard on the little man,' says the Angel \expndtw-1 Michael, coming up\emdash St. Michael was ever the outspo\-\expndtw1 ken, friendly person\emdash 'sure what harm, or what hurt, or what good could he have done us? And can you blame \expndtw2 the poor little crachures for not interfering?'\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 " 'Maybe I was too harsh,' says the Angel Gabriel, \expndtw2 'but being saints, when we say a thing we must stick to \expndtw4 it. Howsumever, I'll let him settle in any part of the world he likes, and I'll send there the kind of human beans he'd wish most for. Now, give your ordher,' he \expndtw-1 says to me, taking out his book and pencil, 'and I'll make \expndtw3 for you the kind of people you'd like to live among.'\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li53\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 " 'Well,' says I, 'I'd like the men honest and brave, \expndtw3 and the women good.'\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 " 'Very well,' he says, writing it down; 'I've got that\emdash  \expndtw4 go on.'\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 " 'And I'd like them full of jollity and sport, fond of \expndtw-2 racing and singing and hunting and fighting, and all such \expndtw0 innocent divarsions.'\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li466\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 'You'll have no complaint about that,' says he.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li67\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 " 'And,' says I, 'I'd like them poor and parsecuted, \expndtw5 bekase when a man gets rich, there's no more fun in \expndtw1 him.'\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1718\cf1\expndtw-27\fs24 12\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Herminie Templeton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri67\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 " 'Yes, I'll fix that. Thrue for you,' says the Angel \expndtw-1 Gabriel, writing.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 " 'And I don't want them to be Christians,' says I; \expndtw1 'make them Haythens or Pagans, for Christians are too \expndtw3 much worried about the Day of Judgment.'\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 " 'Stop there! Say no more! If I make as fine a race \expndtw0 of people as that I won't send them to hell to plaze you, Brian Connors,' says the saint, shutting up the book, 'go \expndtw2 your ways; you have enough.'\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "I clapped me hands, and all the Little People stood \expndtw1 up and bent over the edge, their fingers pointed like \expndtw4 swimmers going to dive. 'One, two, three,' I shouted; and with that we took the leap.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "We were two years and tunty-six days falling before \expndtw3 we raiched the world. On the morning of the next day \expndtw4 we began our sarch for a place to live. We thraveled \expndtw1 from north to south and from ayst to west. Some grew \expndtw2 tired and dhropped off in Spain, some in France, and \expndtw0 others ag'in in different parts of the world. But the most \expndtw2 of us thraveled ever and ever till we came to a lovely \expndtw-1 island that glimmered and laughed and sparkled in the \expndtw1 middle of the say.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 " 'We'll stop here,' I says; 'we needn't sarch farther, \expndtw4 and we needn't go back to Italy or Swizzerland, for of \expndtw3 all places on the earth, this island is the nearest like \expndtw0 heaven; and in it the County Clare and the County Tip\-\expndtw-1 perary are the purtiest spots of all.' So we hollowed out \expndtw3 the great mountain Sleive-na-mon for our home, and \expndtw4 there we are till this day."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li38\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 The king stopped a while, and sat houldin' his chin in his hands. "That's the thrue story," he says, sighing piti\-\expndtw-1 ful. "We took sides with nobody, we minded our own \expndtw4 business, and we got trun out for it," says he.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 So intherested was Father Cassidy in the talk of the \expndtw-1 king that the singing and hammering had died out with\-\expndtw0 out his knowing, and he hadn't noticed at all how the \expndtw-3 darkness had thickened in the valley and how the stillness \expndtw0 had spread over the hillside. But now, whin the chief of the fairies stopped, the good man, half frightened at the \expndtw3 silence, jumped to his feet and turned to look for his \expndtw-1 horse.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 Beyond the dull glow of the dying fire a crowd of Little\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li576\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 HOW THE FAIRIES CAME TO IRELAND      13\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri96\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 People stood waiting, patient and quiet, houlding Terror, \expndtw-1 who champed restless at his bit, and bate impatient with \expndtw3 his hoof on the hard ground.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri86\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 As the priest looked toward them, two of the little \expndtw0 men wearing leather aprons moved out from the others, \expndtw-2 leading the baste slow and careful over to where the good \expndtw2 man stood beside the rock.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri82\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "You've done me a favyer this night," says the clargy-\expndtw-2 man, gripping with his bridle hand the horse's mane, "an' \expndtw-1 all I have to pay it back with'd only harry you, an' make \expndtw2 you oncomfortable, so I'll not say the words," he says.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "No favyer at all," says the king, "but before an hour \expndtw2 there'll be lyin' on your own threshold a favyer in the \expndtw0 shape of a bit of as fine bacon as ever laughed happy in \expndtw4 the middle of biling turnips. We borryed it last night \expndtw1 from a magisthrate named Blake, who lives up in the County Wexford," he says.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The clargyman had swung himself into the saddle.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I'd be loath to say anything disrayspectful," he says \expndtw3 quick, "or to hurt sensitive feelings, but on account of \expndtw-1 my soul's sake I couldn't ate anything that was come by \expndtw1 dishonest," he says.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Bother and botheration, look at that now!" says the \expndtw-1 king. "Every thrade has its drawbacks, but I never raya-\expndtw1 lized before the hardship of being a parish priest. Can't \expndtw2 we manage it some way. Couldn't I put it some place \expndtw0 where you might find it, or give it to a friend who'd send \expndtw5 it to you?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li62\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\tlhyph\tx2155\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Stop a minute," says Father Cassidy. "Up at Tim\line\expndtw0 Healy's I think there's more hunger than sickness, more\line nade for petaties than for physic. Now, if you sent that\line\expndtw1 same bit of bacon\expndtw0\tab "\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li72\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Oh, ho!" says the king, with a dhry cough, "the Hea\-\expndtw2 ly's have no sowls to save, the same as parish priests have."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li77\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I'm a poor, wake, miserable sinner," says the priest, \expndtw3 hanging his head; "I fall at the first temptation. Don't send it," says he.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li86\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Since you forbid me, I'll send it," says the king, \expndtw-1 chucklin'. "I'll not be ruled by you. To-morrow the Hea-ly's'll have five tinder-hearted heads of cabbage, makin' \expndtw6 love in a pot to the finest bit of bacon in Tipperary\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\tx1723\cf1\expndtw-20\fs24 14\expndtw0\tab\expndtw1\i Herminie Templeton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri24\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 that is, unless you do your juty an' ride back to warn \expndtw0 them. Raymember their poor sowls," says he, "an' don't \expndtw2 forget your own," he says.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 The\i  \i0 priest sat unaisy in the saddle. "I'll put all the \expndtw2 raysponsibility on Terror," he says. "The baste has no \expndtw4 sowl to lose. I'll just drop the reins on his neck; if he \expndtw0 turns and goes back to Healy's I'll warn them; if he goes \expndtw3 home let it be on his own conscience."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 He dhropped the reins, and the dishonest baste started for home imagetly.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 But afther a few steps Father Cassidy dhrew up an' \expndtw0 turned in the saddle. Not a sowl was in sight; there was \expndtw-1 only the lonely road and the lonesome hillside; the last \expndtw-2 glimmer of the fairy fire was gone, and a curtain of soft blackness had fallen betwixt him an' where the blaze had \expndtw0 been.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "I bid you good night, Brian Connors," the priest \expndtw5 cried. From somewhere out of the darkness a woice \expndtw4 called back to him, "Good night, your Riverence."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\cf1\expndtw-7\fs43 THE MANOR OF ROSES\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li24\sb197\cf1\expndtw-8\i\fs37 Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li24\ri24\sb1925\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 I am thirty-five, a woman of middle years, and yet in \expndtw-1 this time of pox and plague, of early death and the dying \expndtw3 of beauty before the body dies, it is said that I am still \expndtw5 as beautiful as a Byzantine Madonna, poised in the \expndtw0 heaven of a gold mosaic and wearing sorrow like a robe \expndtw-1 of white petals. But sorrow is not a gown. It is a naked\-ness to the searching eye of the curious, to the magpie -\expndtw2 tongued who love to pry out grief: She grieves too long \expndtw5 . . . The Manor demands an heir . . . Who will defend \expndtw-1 us from the encroaching forest, the thieves and the Man\-\expndtw1 drake People?\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 It was eleven years ago, in the year 1202 of Our Lord, that my husband's comrade-in-arms, Edmund-the-Wolf, \expndtw1 rode to me with the news of my husband's death and, as \expndtw2 if for compensation, the riches captured before he had died in battle. Captured? Pillaged, I should say, in the \expndtw1 sack of Constantinople. You see, it is a time when men \expndtw-1 are boys, rapacious and cruel, as ready to kill a Jew, a \expndtw0 Hungarian, a Greek as an Infidel; happy so long as they \expndtw5 wield a sword and claim to serve God. A time when \expndtw0 boys who have not yet grown to their fathers' pride-\expndtw2 Crusading, it is called\emdash are the only true men.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 And yet I loved my husband, a red-haired Norman, \expndtw3 gay as the men of the South, and not like most of our \expndtw-2 stern northern people. I loved him for his gaiety, his hair \expndtw-1 the color of Roman bricks, and because he left me a son.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li67\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 But the Crusader's code, like an evil demon of pox, \expndtw-2 also possesses children. Only last year in France and Ger-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li77\sb72\qc\cf1\expndtw-31\fs23 15\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li14\tx1613\cf1\expndtw-25\fs23 16\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri34\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 many, Stephen proclaimed his message from Christ, Nicholas piped his irresistible flute, and the children \expndtw4 yearned to them as tides to the moon and flowed in a \expndtw-1 sea of white immaculate robes toward the shores of that \expndtw3 greater sea, the Mediterranean.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Little of the madness crossed to England. Perhaps our \expndtw0 children are not inclined to visions, perhaps they prefer \expndtw3 the hunt to the drafty halls of a church and talks with \expndtw-1 God. But the madness, missing the thousands, somehow \expndtw2 touched my son. He rode to London, astride his roan \expndtw-2 palfrey and dressed in a jerkin of sheepskin dyed to the yellow of gorse, with a leather belt at his waist and a fawn-colored pouch a-jingle with new-minted pennies. \expndtw1 Ready to board a ship for Marseilles and join Stephen. \expndtw-1 But Stephen and most of his army were sold as slaves to \expndtw-2 the Infidel; Nicholas died of the plague before he reached \expndtw0 the sea; and my son of fifteen summers, reaching Lon\-don, stood on the banks of the Thames to choose what \expndtw-3 twin-castled ship would bear him across the channel, and \expndtw2 fell to the blade of a common cut-purse. The Devil, I \expndtw-1 think, possessed the children, a jest to fling like a gaunt\-\expndtw5 let in the teeth of God.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 God is not blind, however. In less than a year, He sent me those other children, struck with the same madness: \expndtw6 John, a dark-haired Norman; Stephen, a Saxon but \expndtw4 named like the boy of France; and Ruth, whom they \expndtw-2 called their guardian angel (but no one knew if she came \expndtw1 from Heaven or Hell.) God, I felt, had made me His \expndtw3 instrument to preserve them from my own son's ruin. \expndtw0 Was He wrong to trust me with so precious and difficult \expndtw1 a task? I tried, Mother of God I tried! I sheltered them \expndtw5 from the Mandrakes of the forest. Loved them, hurt \expndtw4 them, and then at the last\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 But you shall judge me \expndtw53 ...\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 He ran blinded by tears across the heath, startling \expndtw0 birds into flight, pheasants and grouse enough to feast a \expndtw-1 king. Conies peered from their nests and submerged like \expndtw3 frogs in a pond with a dull, simultaneous plop. Didn't \expndtw0 they know that he, timorous John, who had lost his bow in the woods and scattered the arrows out of his quiver, \expndtw1 was not a creature to fear? He had come from the hunt with his father, lord of Goshawk Castle, and the knights\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1382\tx5040\cf1\expndtw-6\fs22 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-16 17\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri62\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Robert, Arthur, Edgar and the rest. The names of the \expndtw-4 knights were different, their features almost identical. \expndtw-8 Rough hands, calloused from wielding swords against the \expndtw-7 Infidel\emdash and their fellow Englishmen. Cheeks ruddy with \expndtw-5 mead and not with the English climate. Odorous bodies \expndtw-2 enveloped by fur lined surcoats which they pridefully wore even in the flush of summer, instead of imitating \expndtw-5 the villeins with their simple breech-clouts or their trou\-sers without tunics. Lank, sweat-dampened hair, long in \expndtw-2 the back and cut in a fringe across their- foreheads.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 John, the Baron's son, had been allowed the first shot at a stag beleaguered by hounds. He was not a good \expndtw-4 bowman, but the stag had been much too close to miss \expndtw-2 except by design. Once, gathering chestnuts with his \expndtw-4 friend Stephen, the shepherd, he had seen the same ani\-\expndtw-5 mal, a splendid beast with horns like wind-beaten trees \expndtw-2 along the North Sea.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "He isn't afraid of us," Stephen had whispered.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 "Nor has he reason to be," said John. "We would \expndtw-1 never harm him. He's much too beautiful."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li38\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Now, the animal had turned and looked at him with \expndtw1 recognition, it seemed, and resignation; harried by \expndtw-4 hounds, bemused in a clump of bracken. John had fired \expndtw-5 his arrow above the antlers. The stag had escaped, burst\-\expndtw-3 ing out of the bracken as if the coarse ferns were blades of grass and leveling three dogs with his adamantine \expndtw-9 hooves.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li53\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "Girl!" his father had shouted, hoarse with rage at \expndtw-1 losing a feast and a pair of antlers to grace his barren hall. "I should get you a distaff instead of a bow!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li58\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 For punishment John was bladed. After the knights \expndtw-4 had downed a smaller animal, a young doe, they had \expndtw-6 stretched him across the warm, bloody carcass and each \expndtw-3 man had struck him with the flat of his sword. Most of the knights had softened their blows. After all, he was \expndtw-5 their liege-lord's son. But his father's blow had left him \expndtw-2 bleeding and biting his tongue to hold back shameful \expndtw-4 tears.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sb5\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 Then they had left him.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li72\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 "Go to the kennels and get your friend Stephen to \expndtw-5 dry your tears," his father had sneered. A coarse guffaw \expndtw3 greeted the taunt. Stephen was said to have lain with\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li14\tx1613\cf1\expndtw-32\fs24 18\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri38\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 every villein's daughter between twelve and twenty, and \expndtw-1 men without daughters liked to jest: "Girls weep till Ste\-\expndtw4 phen dries their tears."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Alone in the woods, John forgot his shame; he was \expndtw-1 top frightened. Just turned twelve, he knew of desperate \expndtw3 thieves, sentenced to die by the rope, who had taken \expndtw1 refuge among the sycamores which remembered the \expndtw4 Romans, and the oaks which had drunk the blood of \expndtw-1 Druid sacrifices. As for animals, there were wolves and \expndtw0 bears and long-tusked boars, and amphisbaenas too, the \expndtw3 twin-headed serpents, and griffins with scaly wings. \expndtw5 Worst of all, there were the Mandrake People who, \expndtw3 grown like roots, clambered out of the ground to join \expndtw1 their kin in acts of cannibalism.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Where could he go? Not to the castle, certainly, where \expndtw4 the hunters had doubtless climbed in a broad wooden \expndtw-2 tub to scrape the grime of weeks from each other's backs, \expndtw1 while kitchen wenches doused them with buckets of \expndtw0 steaming water and ogled their naked brawn. Once, the \expndtw1 castle had held his mother. Its darkness had shone with \expndtw-1 the whiteness of her samite; its odors were masked with \expndtw0 the cloves and the cinnamon, the mace and the musk of \expndtw-1 her kitchen; its bailey had bloomed with a damson tree whose seeds had come from the Holy Land, and delicate \expndtw6 shallots, the "Onions of Ascalon," had reared their \expndtw8 tender shoots around the tree, like little guardian \expndtw-4 gnomes.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "If there must be fruits of war," she had said, "we \expndtw3 must see that they are living things, not dead; sweet \expndtw1 things, not bitter; soft things, not hard. The verdure of \expndtw4 earth and not the gold from dead men's coffers."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Six years ago she had died of the pox. Now, when he \expndtw5 knelt on the stone floor of the chapel, he prayed to \expndtw3 Father, Son, and Mary, but Mary was Mother.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 No, he could not go to the castle. He could but he did \expndtw1 not wish to visit the Abbot's cottage and face another \expndtw2 lesson in logic and astrology, Lucan and Aristotle. He \expndtw-1 was a willing, indeed a brilliant scholar. But there were \expndtw0 times to study and times to look for Stephen. In spite of \expndtw1 his father's taunt, it was time to look for Stephen. It was \expndtw-1 not that his friend was soft or womanish like a sister. He \expndtw2 was, in fact, as rough-swearing, ready-to-fight a boy as\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1387\tx5045\cf1\expndtw-5\fs23 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-24 19\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri67\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 ever tumbled a girl in the hay. But he curbed his \expndtw-2 roughness with John, respected his learning, and ignored \expndtw-3 his weaknesses.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Stephen was a Saxon villein three years older than \expndtw0 John. His forebears, he rightly claimed, had once been \expndtw-2 powerful earls. But the conquering Normans had reduced \expndtw5 them to the status of serfs and attached them to their \expndtw-2 own former lands, which had once held a wooden hall surrounded by a palisade, but now a castle built by John's \expndtw3 grandfather, a square stone keep encircled by curtain \expndtw-3 walls whose gatehouse was toothed with a rusty portcullis \expndtw0 and guarded by archers in hidden embrasures. Stephen's \expndtw-1 parents were dead, killed by the Mandrake People in one \expndtw0 of their swift forays out of the forest to steal sheep and hogs. It was on that very day, two years ago, that he and \expndtw-1 Stephen had become inseparable friends. John had found \expndtw1 him crouching above his mother's body. John, who did \expndtw-1 not even know his name, had laid a tentative arm around \expndtw1 his shoulders\emdash an act of extraordinary boldness for one \expndtw3 so shy\emdash and half expected a snarled rebuff or even a \expndtw5 blow. But Stephen had buried his head in the arms of \expndtw1 his master's son and sobbed convulsively without tears. \expndtw4 It was not long before they agreed to adopt each other \expndtw2 as brothers and, cutting their forearms with a hunting \expndtw3 knife, mingled their blood to cement the bond.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 From that time till now, Stephen had lived in a loft above the kennels, dog-boy, shepherd, farmer, fighter \expndtw0 with fists and cudgel second to none. He could not read \expndtw3 English, much less French and Latin, but the wolves \expndtw2 feared his cudgel and grown men his fists. How could \expndtw-2 you best describe him? Angry, sometimes, but angry \i for \expndtw-1\i0 things and not against them. For the serfs and the squalor \expndtw-2 in which they lived; the dogs which were run too hard in \expndtw-1 the hunt and gored by wild boars; the animals killed for \expndtw2 sport and not for food. Sometimes, too, he was glad: \expndtw-1 loudly, radiantly, exuberantly keen on things; drawing a \expndtw0 bow, feeding his dogs, swinging a scythe.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 At other times he was neither angry nor glad, but \expndtw0 beyond anger and gladness; enraptured by dreams: of \expndtw2 meeting an angel or finding Excalibur or, best of all, \expndtw-2 buying his freedom and becoming a Knight Hospitaler to \expndtw2 succor pilgrims and slaughter Infidels ("But you would\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li62\tx1675\cf1\expndtw-13\fs22 20\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li67\ri24\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 have to take an oath of chastity," John reminded him. \expndtw-2 "I'll think about that when the time comes," said Ste\-\expndtw-3 phen). Furthermore, he was one of those rarest of rarit\-\expndtw-5 ies, a dreamer who acts on his dreams, and lately he had \expndtw-4 talked about the ill-fated Children's Crusade, and how it \expndtw-5 was time for other Stephens, other Nicholases, to follow \expndtw-1 the first children and, armed with swords instead of \expndtw-3 crosses, succeed where they had failed.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li77\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 It was John's unspeakable fear that Stephen would \expndtw-6 leave for Jerusalem without him, and yet he did not know \expndtw0 if he had the courage for such a journey, through the \expndtw-1 dark Weald to London and then by ship to Marseilles \expndtw-4 and the ports of Outre-Mer, the Outer Land, the Saracen \expndtw-6 Land. Now, he quickened his pace and thought of argu\-\expndtw-2 ments with which to dissuade his friend. He met old \expndtw-5 Edward scything in the Common Meadow; a tattered breechclout around his loins, his face and shoulders as coarse and brown as a saddle ridden from London to \expndtw-2 Edinburgh. Edward did not look up from his task, nor \expndtw-3 miss a stroke of the scythe. "Why look at the sky?" he \expndtw1 liked to mutter. "It belongs to angels, not to serfs."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li302\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "Have you seen Stephen?" John asked.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li86\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-7\fs24 Swish, swish, swish went the scythe, and the weeds \expndtw-2 collapsed as if they had caught the plague.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li307\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\i\fs22 "Have you seen Stephen?"\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li91\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "I'm not deaf," the old man growled. "Your father's \expndtw-6 taken my youth, my pigs, and my corn, but not my ears. \expndtw-1 Not yet, anyway. Your friend'll be losing his, though, \expndtw-6 'less he does his work. He oughta be here in the Meadow \expndtw-2 right now."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li312\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "But where is he?" cried John in desperation.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi312\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs24 "Making for the Roman Place with that look in his   eyes. That's where he hides, you know. Daydreams. \expndtw1 Didn't even speak to me."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li101\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 The Roman Place. The ruin where the Romans had \expndtw-4 worshipped their sun-god, Mithras, in an underground \expndtw0 vault. Later, by way of apology to the Christian God, \expndtw-5 the Saxons had built a timber church to conceal the spot \expndtw-2 and turned the vault into a crypt for their dead. During \expndtw-3 the Norman Conquest, women and children had hidden \expndtw-1 in the church, and the Normans had set a torch to the \expndtw0 roof and burned the building with all of its occupants.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1387\tx5035\cf1\expndtw-5\fs23 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-26 21\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri58\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The charred and mis-shapen remnants were almost con\-\expndtw2 cealed\emdash healed, as it were\emdash by flowering gorse, and a \expndtw-1 few blackened timbers, which thrust like seeking hands \expndtw1 from the yellow flowers, summoned no worshippers to the buried gods.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 A stranger would not suspect a vault beneath the \expndtw-1 gorse, but John parted the spiny branches and climbed through a narrow hole to a flight of stairs. A sacredness \expndtw0 clung to the place, a sense of time, like that of a Druid \expndtw-1 stone which lichen had aged to a muted, mottled orange and which thrust at the stars as if to commune with them \expndtw1 in cosmic loneliness. Here, the worshippers of Mithras \expndtw-2 had bathed themselves in the blood of the sacrificial bull \expndtw-1 and climbed through the seven stages of initiation to \expndtw-2 commune with the sun instead of the stars. A nasty pagan \expndtw0 rite, said the Abbot, and John had asked him why Jeho\-\expndtw-1 vah had ordered Abraham to sacrifice Isaac. "It was only \expndtw5 a test," snapped the Abbot.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "But what about Jephthah's daughter? \i She \i0 wasn't a \expndtw4 test." The Abbot had changed the subject.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Already, at twelve, John had begun to ask questions \expndtw1 about the Bible, God, Christ, and the Holy Ghost. To Stephen, religion was feeling and not thought. God was \expndtw-1 a patriarch with a flowing beard, and angels were almost \expndtw-2 as real as the dogs in his kennel. With John it was differ\-\expndtw-1 ent. Only the Virgin Mary was not a subject for doubts, \expndtw4 arguments, but a beautiful, ageless woman robed in \expndtw3 samite, dwelling in the high places of the air or almost \expndtw-1 at hand, outshining the sun and yet as simple as bread, grass, birds, and Stephen's love; invisible but never unreachable.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 At the foot of the stairs he faced a long, narrow cave \expndtw-1 with earthen walls which contained the loculi of Chris\-\expndtw1 tians buried in their cerements and which converged to \expndtw-2 the semi-circle of an apse. Now, the apse was empty of \expndtw2 Mithras slaying the sacred bull and Mary holding the \expndtw3 infant Christ. Stephen knelt in their place. He held a \expndtw0 waxen candle which lit the frescoed roof: Jesus walking on water; multiplying loaves and fish; bidding the blind \expndtw4 to see and the lame to walk.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "John," he gasped, "I have found\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "A Madonna!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1618\cf1\expndtw-7\fs23 22\expndtw0\tab\expndtw1\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri34\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 She lay in a nest of bindweed shaped to a simple pallet. \expndtw-1 Her face was an ivory mask in the light of the candle. A \expndtw0 carved Madonna, thought John, from the transept of a \expndtw4 French cathedral, but flushed with the unmistakable \expndtw-2 ardors of life. No, he saw with a disappointment which \expndtw-3 approached dismay, she was much too young for the Vir\-\expndtw2 gin; a mere girl.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "An angel," said Stephen.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "An angel," sighed John, resenting her youthfulness. \expndtw4 What did he need with a second angel, a girl at that? \expndtw-1 God (or the Virgin Mary) had sent him Stephen, angelic \expndtw3 but not female and certainly not effeminate, his hair a \expndtw-1 riot instead of an aureole, his face more ruddy than pink: \expndtw2 a Michael or Gabriel fit for sounding a trumpet instead \expndtw1 of strumming a lyre.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 The angel stirred and opened her eyes with a pretty \expndtw-2 fluttering; not with surprise or fright, but almost, thought \expndtw-3 John, with artful calculation, like some of the rustic lasses \expndtw3 who flocked to Stephen's loft. Her teeth were as white \expndtw-2 as her linen robe, which was bound at the waist by a cord \expndtw-1 of cerulean silk. Her pointed slippers, unicorn leather \expndtw3 trimmed with blue velvet, were such as might be worn \expndtw-2 in the soft pastures of heaven. She lacked only wings. Or \expndtw6 had she concealed them under her robe? John was \expndtw3 tempted to ask.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li34\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Stephen forestalled him. "Greet her," he whispered. \expndtw1 "Welcome her!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "In what language?" asked John sensibly. "I don't \expndtw2 know the tongues of angels."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Latin, I should think. She must know that, with all \expndtw2 the priests muttering their Benedicites."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Stephen had a point. Rude English was out of the \expndtw-1 question, and also the French of the Normans, who, after \expndtw1 all, had descended from barbarous Vikings.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Quo Vadis?" asked John none too politely.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Her smile, though delectable, no doubt, to Stephen, \expndtw2 did not answer the question.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "What are you doing here?" he repeated in Norman \expndtw-2 French.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Stephen, who understood some French, frantically \expndtw-2 nudged him. "You shouldn't question an angel. Welcome \expndtw4 her! Worship her! Quote her a psalm or a proverb."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1387\tx5035\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 23\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri58\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "We aren't sure she's an angel. She hasn't told us, has \expndtw1 she?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 At last she spoke. "I do not know how I came here," \expndtw-2 she said in flawless Latin and, seeing the blankness on \expndtw3 Stephen's face, repeated the words in English, but with \expndtw-1 a grave dignity which softened the rough tongue. At the same time, John noticed the crucifix which she held or \expndtw1 rather clutched in her hands: a small Greek cross with \expndtw-3 arms of equal length, wrought of gold and encrusted with \expndtw-1 stones which he knew from his studies, though not from \expndtw2 his father's castle, were the fabulous pearls of the East. \expndtw0 "I remember only a darkness, and a falling, and a great forest. I wandered until I found the passage to this cave, \expndtw-1 and took shelter against the night. I must have been very \expndtw0 tired. I feel as if I have slept for a long time." She lifted \expndtw1 the cross and then, as if its weight had exhausted her \expndtw-2 slender hands, allowed it to sink becomingly against her \expndtw-1 breast.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "I suppose," said John with annoyance, "you're \expndtw0 hungry."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 Stephen sprang to his feet. "But angels don't eat! \expndtw4 Can't you see, John? God has sent her to us as a sign! \expndtw0 To lead us to the Holy Land! Stephen of France had his \expndtw2 message from Christ. We have our angel."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "But look what happened to Stephen of France. Sold \expndtw0 as a slave or drowned in the sea. Only the sharks know \expndtw-1 which."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "I don't think he's dead. And if he is, then he listened \expndtw5 to the Devil's voice and not to God's. But we can \i see \expndtw3\i0 our angel."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Indeed, you can see me," she said, "and you ought \expndtw0 to see that I am famished. Angels do eat, I assure you\emdash  \expndtw-1 at least when they travel\emdash and something more substan\-tial than nectar and dew. Have you venison perhaps? \expndtw2 Mead?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "You must take her to the castle," said Stephen, \expndtw-2 clearly reluctant to part with his new-found angel. "I've \expndtw3 nothing so fine in the kennels."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li62\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "No," said John. "I'm not taking anyone to the castle. \expndtw3 I've decided to stay with you in the kennels."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li278\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Because of your father?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Yes. He bladed me before all of his men, and then\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1622\cf1\expndtw-11\fs22 24\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sb168\qj\tlhyph\tx2040\cf1\expndtw8\fs24 he called me a\expndtw0\tab\expndtw5 " He could not bring himself to\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 repeat the taunt, especially to Stephen. "He called me a churl. Because I missed a stag. \i Our \i0 stag. The one we \expndtw-1 promised never to harm."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri24\sb5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Stephen nodded with understanding. "I'm glad you \expndtw-4 missed him. They say he's the oldest stag in the forest. \expndtw-6 They say"\emdash and here he lowered his voice\emdash "that he isn't \expndtw-5 a stag at all, but Merlin turned to a beast by Vivian. But \expndtw-6 John, how can you live with me in the kennels? It would \expndtw-3 wound your father's pride. A baron's son sharing a loft \expndtw-4 with a dog-boy! He'd give you more than a blading, and as for me! You mayn't remember he cut off my father's \expndtw-3 ears because he broke a scythe. And now with an angel \expndtw0 on our hands, the only thing to do is\emdash "\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "Get the angel off our hands?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "Leave at once for the Holy Land. I have a little food \expndtw0 in the kennels, a change of wear. You needn't go back \expndtw1 to the castle at all. We've only to follow the Roman \expndtw-3 Road through the Weald to London, and take ship to \expndtw-1 Marseilles, and from thence proceed to Outre-Mer."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "But Marseilles was where the French Stephen fell in \expndtw-1 the hands of slavers."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "But we have a guide!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "If she isn't really an angel\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "At least we'll have made our escape from the castle."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "You mean we should leave the castle \i forever\i0 ?"\i  \i0 The prospect of leaving his father exhilarated him; he would \expndtw-3 feel like a falcon with its hood removed. But the castle \expndtw-5 held all of his possessions, his codex, \i The Kings of Brit\-\expndtw0 ain, \i0 written on the finest vellum and bound between \expndtw-5 ivory covers; and the parchment containing his favorite \expndtw-2 poem, "The Owl and the Nightingale," copied labori\-\expndtw-6 ously by his own precise hand. Much more important, it \expndtw-4 held his mother's ghost, his sum of remembering: stairs \expndtw-6 she had climbed, tapestries woven, garments mended; his mother living in song what she could not live in life and \expndtw-4 singing of noble warriors and deathless loves:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sb240\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\i\fs22 See, he who carved this wood commands me to ask You to remember, oh treasure-adorned one, \expndtw7 The pledge of old . . .\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1392\tx5045\cf1\expndtw1\fs21 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-9 25\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri67\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs26 "Leave my father's castle," he repeated, "and not \expndtw1 come back? Ever?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs26 Stephen's face turned as red as the Oriflamme, the \expndtw0 fiery banner of the French kings. \i "Your father's castle? \expndtw2\i0 This land belonged to my ancestors when yours were \expndtw0 scurvy Vikings! You think I'll stay here forever as dog-\expndtw1 boy and shepherd? Serving a man who blades his own \expndtw-3 son? Giving him what I grow and what I hunt, and asking \expndtw1 his leave to take a wife? John, John, there's nothing for \expndtw3 either of us here. Ahead of us lies Jerusalem!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li19\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs26 To Stephen, the name was a trumpet blast; to John, a death knell. "But a forest stands in the way, and then a channel, and a rough sea swarming with Infidels. They have ships too, you know, swifter than ours and armed \expndtw1 with Greek Fire."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs26 But Stephen had gripped his shoulders and fixed nun \expndtw1 with his blue, relentless gaze. "You know I can't leave \expndtw2 you."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs26 "You know you won't have to," sighed John.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs26 The angel interrupted them, looking a little peeved \expndtw-1 that in their exchange of pleas and protestations, of male endearments, they were neglecting their quest and their \expndtw5 inspiration. "As for leading you to the Holy Land, I \expndtw0 don't even know this forest through which you say you \expndtw1 must pass. But here in the ground it is damp, and before \expndtw6 I came here, I did not like the look of the castle. It \expndtw1 seemed to me dark and fierce, with a dry ditch and a \expndtw3 gloomy keep, and narrow windows without a pane of \expndtw6 glass. A fortress and not a home. If indeed I am an \expndtw2 angel, I hope to find dwellings more pleasant here on \expndtw0 earth. Or else I shall quickly return to the sky. In the \expndtw2 meantime, let us set off for London, and you shall lead \expndtw3\i me \i0 until I begin to remember."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs26 The angel between them, they climbed the stairs to the \expndtw-1 sun and, skirting old Edward, who was still busily scyth\-\expndtw0 ing in the Common Meadow, came at last to the kennels. \expndtw-2 It was mid-day. The Baron and his knights had remained \expndtw1 in the castle since the hunt. His villeins, trudging out of the fields, had gathered in the shade of the watermill to \expndtw3 enjoy their gruel and bread. Had anyone noticed the \expndtw2 quick, furtive passage of the would-be Crusaders, he would have thought them engaged in childish sports, or\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1618\cf1\expndtw-11\fs22 26\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri29\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 supposed that Stephen had found a young wench to share \expndtw-4 with his master's son and probably muttered, "It's high \expndtw-1 time."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 While Stephen's greyhounds lapped at their heels, they \expndtw-3 climbed to his loft above the kennels to get his few \expndtw-7 belongings: two clover-green tunics with hoods for wintry days; wooden clogs and a pair of blue stockings which \expndtw-2 reached to the calf of the leg; a leather pouch bulging \expndtw-6 with wheaten bread and rounds of cheese; a flask of beer; \expndtw-1 and a knotted shepherd's crook.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "For wolves," said Stephen, pointing to the crook. \expndtw1 "I've used it often."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "And Mandrakes," asked John wickedly, hoping to \expndtw-3 frighten the angel.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "But we have no change of clothes for a girl," said \expndtw-6 Stephen.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 "Never mind," she smiled, guzzling Stephen's beer and \expndtw-2 munching his bread till she threatened to exhaust the \expndtw-5 supply before they began their journey. "When my robe grows soiled, I shall wash it in a stream and," she added \expndtw-2 archly, "the two of you may see if I am truly an angel."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 The remark struck John as unangelic if not indelicate. \expndtw-2 As if they would spy on her while she bathed!\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 But Stephen reassured her. "We never doubted you \expndtw-1 were. And now\emdash " A catch entered his voice. Quickly \expndtw-3 he turned his head and seemed to be setting the loft in order.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "We must leave him alone with his hounds," whis\-\expndtw0 pered John to the angel, leading her down the ladder.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 A silent Stephen rejoined them in the Heath. His tunic \expndtw-3 was damp from friendly tongues and his face was wet, \expndtw-1 but whether from tongues or tears, it was hard to say.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "You don't suppose," he said, "we could take one or \expndtw-5 two of them with us? The little greyhound without any \expndtw-1 tail?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "No," said John. "My father will stomp and shout \expndtw-4 when he finds us gone, but then he'll shrug: 'Worthless \expndtw-3 boys, both of them, and no loss to the castle.' But steal \expndtw1 one of his hounds, and he'll have his knights on our \expndtw0 trail."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "But our angel has no name," cried Stephen suddenly \expndtw-2 and angrily, as if to say: "As long as she's come to take\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1392\tx5040\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 27\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri38\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 me from my hounds, she might at least have brought a \expndtw-1 name."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "I \i had \i0 a name, I'm sure. It seems to have slipped my \expndtw-2 mind. What would you like to call me?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 "Why not Ruth?" said Stephen. "She was always going on journeys in the Bible, leading cousins and such, wasn't \expndtw-3 she?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li5\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 "A mother-in-law," corrected John, who felt that, \expndtw0 what with a Crusade ahead of them, Stephen should \expndtw-4 know the Scriptures.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "Leading and \i being \i0 led," observed the angel, whose memory, it seemed, had begun to return. "By two strap\-\expndtw-4 ping husbands. Though," she hurried to explain, "not at \expndtw-1 the same time. Yes, I think you should call me Ruth."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 She is much too young for Ruth, thought John, who \expndtw-3 guessed her to be about fifteen (though of course as an \expndtw-4 angel she might be fifteen thousand). The same age as \expndtw-6 Stephen, whose thoughts were attuned to angelic visions \expndtw-4 but whose bodily urges were not in the least celestial. \expndtw-5 Unlike a Knight Templar, he had made no vow of chas\-\expndtw-4 tity. The situation was not propitious for a crusade in the \expndtw-2 name of God.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 But once they had entered the Weald, the largest for\-\expndtw-4 est in southern England, he thought of Mandrakes and \expndtw0 griffins instead of Ruth. It was true that the Stane, an \expndtw-5 old Roman highway, crossed the Weald to join London \expndtw-6 and Chichester\emdash they would meet it within the hour\emdash  \expndtw-1 but even the Stane was not immune to the forest.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li29\ri5\sb662\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 At Ruth's suggestion, they carefully skirted the grounds \expndtw-1 of a neighboring castle, the Boar's Lair.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "Someone might recognize John," she said. "Send word to his father."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "Yes," John agreed, staring at the Norman tower, one \expndtw-3 of the black wooden keeps built by William the Con\-\expndtw0 queror to enforce his conquest. "My father and Philip \expndtw-2 the Boar were once friends. Philip used to dine with us \expndtw-3 on Michaelmas and other feast days, and I played the \expndtw-4 kettledrums for him. Since then, he and my father have \expndtw-5 fallen out about their boundaries. They both claim a cer-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1613\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 28\expndtw0\tab\expndtw3\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li14\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 tain grove of beechnut trees\emdash pannage for their swine. Philip wouldn't be hospitable, I'm sure."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 Deviously, circuitously, by way of a placid stream and \expndtw-5 an old water wheel whose power no longer turned mill\-\expndtw-3 stones and ground wheat into flour, they reached the \expndtw-4 Roman Stane. Once a proud thoroughfare for uncon\-querable legions, it had since resounded to Saxon, Vik\-\expndtw-6 ing, and Norman, who had used it for commerce and war but, unlike the conscientious Romans, never repaired the \expndtw-4 ravages of wheels and weather. Now, it had shrunk in places to the width of a peasant's cart, but the smooth \expndtw-3 Roman blocks, set in concrete, still provided a path for \expndtw-5 riders and walkers and great ladies in litters between two \expndtw-6 horses.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "I feel like the Stane," sighed Ruth, "much-trodden \expndtw0 and a trifle weedy." She had torn the edge of her robe \expndtw-5 on prickly sedges and muddied the white linen. She had \expndtw-3 lost the circlet which haloed her head, and her silken \expndtw-5 tresses, gold as the throats of convolvulus flowers, had \expndtw-3 spilled like their trailing leafage over her shoulders. As for John, he was hot, breathless, and moist with sweat, \expndtw-5 and wishing that like a serf he dared to remove his long-\expndtw-3 sleeved tunic and revel in his breechclout.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "Stephen," Ruth sighed, "now that we've found the \expndtw-4 road, can't we rest a little?" Her speech, though still \expndtw-3 melodious, had relaxed into easy, informal English.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "We've just begun!" he laughed. "London lies days \expndtw0 away. We want to be leagues down the road before \expndtw-2 night."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "But it's already mid-afternoon. Why not rest till it \expndtw-5 gets a little cooler?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "Very well," he smiled, reaching out to touch her in \expndtw-6 good-humored acquiescence. Stephen, who found diffi\-\expndtw-7 culty with words, spoke with his hands, which were nests \expndtw-4 to warm a bird, balms to heal a dog, bows to extract the \expndtw-7 music from swinging a scythe, wielding an ax, gathering \expndtw-1 branches to build a fire. He could gesture or point or \expndtw-3 touch with the exquisite eloquence of a man who was \expndtw-6 deaf, dumb, and blind. When you said good morning to him, he clapped you on the shoulder. When you walked \expndtw-4 with him, he brushed against you or caught you by the \expndtw3 arm. He liked to climb trees for the rough feel of the\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1387\tx5050\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 29\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri24\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 bark or swim in a winter stream and slap the icy currents \expndtw2 until he warmed his body. But he saved his touch for \expndtw0 things or the people he loved. Neither ugly things nor unkind people.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "We'll rest as long as you like," he said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Ruth smiled. "I think I should borrow one of your \expndtw8 tunics. You see how my robe keeps dragging the \expndtw2 ground."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 With a flutter of modesty she withdrew to a clump of \expndtw3 bracken and changed to a tunic.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "Watch out for basilisks," John called after her. \expndtw0 "Their bite is fatal, you know." He muttered under his \expndtw-1 breath to Stephen: "First she ate your food, and now she \expndtw1 wears your clothes."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\i\fs23 "Our \i0 food and clothes," reproved Stephen. "Remem\-\expndtw4 ber, we're Crusaders together."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 John was shamed into silence. He had to listen to Ruth \expndtw0 as she bent branches, snapped twigs, and rustled cloth, \expndtw-2 almost as if she wished to advertise the various stages of \expndtw-3 her change. He thought of the wenches\emdash ten? twenty?\emdash  \expndtw-2 who had disrobed for Stephen. The subject \i love \i0 confused \expndtw2 him. The Aristotelian processes of his brain refused to \expndtw-2 sift, clarify, and evaluate the problem; in fact, they crum\-\expndtw0 pled like windmills caught in a forest fire. He had loved \expndtw-1 his mother\emdash what was the word?\emdash filially; Stephen he loved fraternally. But as for the other thing, well, he had \expndtw-2 not been able to reconcile the courtly code as sung by the \expndtw-1 troubadours\emdash roses and guerdons and troths of deathless \expndtw0 fidelity\emdash and the sight of Stephen, surprised last year in \expndtw-1 his loft with a naked wench and not in the least embar\-\expndtw0 rassed. Stephen had grinned and said: "In a year or so, John, we can wench together!" The girl, snickering and \expndtw1 making no effort to hide her nakedness, had seemed to \expndtw-1 him one of those Biblical harlots who ought to be shorn, \expndtw3 or stoned. Who could blame poor Stephen for yielding \expndtw2 to such allurements! As for himself, however, he had \expndtw-2 sworn the chivalric oath to practice poverty, chastity, and \expndtw1 obedience to God. He had thought of a monastery but \expndtw0 rather than part with Stephen, who was not in the least \expndtw2 monastic, he was willing to try a life of action.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "Has a crow got your tongue?" smiled Stephen. "I\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1613\cf1\expndtw-10\fs21 30\expndtw0\tab\expndtw3\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri38\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 didn't mean to scold." He encircled John's shoulder with \expndtw2 his arm. "You smell like cloves."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 John stiffened, not at the touch but at what appeared \expndtw2 to be an insinuation. He had not forgotten his father's \expndtw4 taunt: "Girl!" According to custom, it was girls and \expndtw-2 women who packed their gowns in clove-scented chests, \expndtw0 while the men of a castle hung their robes in the room \expndtw1 called the \i garderobe, \i0 another name for the lavatory cut \expndtw0 in the wall beside the stairs, with a round shaft dropping \expndtw10 to the moat. The stench of the shaft protected the \expndtw0 room\emdash and the robes\emdash from moths.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li10\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "They belonged to my mother," he stammered. "The \expndtw4 cloves, I mean. I still use her chest."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "My mother put flowering mint with her clothes," said \expndtw6 Stephen. "AH two gowns! I like the cloves better, \expndtw1 though. Maybe the scent will rub off on me. I haven't \expndtw0 bathed for a week." He gave John's shoulder a squeeze, and John knew that his manhood had not been belittled. \expndtw5 But then, Stephen had never belittled him, had he? \expndtw2 Teased him, yes; hurt him in play; once knocked him \expndtw0 down for stepping on the tail of a dog; but never made \expndtw-1 light of his manliness.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "It's not a dangerous road," Stephen continued, talk\-\expndtw0 ative for once, perhaps because John was silent. "The \expndtw1 abbots of Chichester patrol it for brigands. They don't \expndtw2 carry swords, but Gabriel help the thief who falls afoul \expndtw1 of their staves!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "But the forest," John said. "It's all around us like a \expndtw1 pride of griffins. With green, scaly wings. They look as \expndtw0 if they're going to eat up the road. They've already nib\-\expndtw-2 bled away the edges, and"\emdash he lowered his voice\emdash "she \expndtw4 came out of the forest, didn't she?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Stephen laughed. "She came out of the sky, simpleton! \expndtw4 Didn't you hear her say she don't know nothing about \expndtw3 the forest?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Before John could lecture Stephen on his lapse in grammar, Ruth exploded between them, as green as a \expndtw-2 down in the tenderness of spring. She blazed in Stephen's \expndtw0 tunic, its hood drawn over her head. She had bound her \expndtw2 waist with the gold sash from her robe and, discarding \expndtw-3 her velvet slippers, donned his wooden clogs, whose very \expndtw4 ugliness emphasized the delicacy of her bare feet. She\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1382\tx5030\cf1\expndtw-5\fs23 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-24 31\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri62\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 had bundled her linen robe around her slippers and \expndtw-6 crucifix.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "No one would ever guess that I'm an angel," she smiled. "Or even a girl."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Not an angel," said Stephen appreciatively. "But a \expndtw3 girl, yes. You'd have to roughen your hands and hide your curls to pass for a boy."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 She made a pretence of hiding her hair, but furtively shook additional curls from her hood the moment they resumed their journey, and began to sing a familiar song \expndtw1 of the day:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\sb72\cf1\i\fs23 In a valley of this restless mind,\cf0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\cf1\expndtw3\i\fs23 I sought in mountain and in mead . \i0 . .\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri43\sb101\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Though she sang about a man searching for Christ, the words rippled from her tongue as merrily as if she were \expndtw-2 singing a carol. John wished for his kettledrums and Ste\-\expndtw1 phen began to whistle. Thus, they forgot the desolation \expndtw-1 of the road, largely untraveled at such an hour and look\-\expndtw-3 ing as if the griffin-scaly forest would soon complete its \expndtw-4 meal.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Then, swinging around a bend and almost trampling them, cantered a knight with a red cross painted on his \expndtw0 shield\emdash a Knight Templar, it seemed\emdash and after him, on \expndtw1 a large piebald palfrey, a lady riding pillion behind a \expndtw2 servant who never raised his eyes from the road. The \expndtw1 knight frowned at them; in spite of the vows demanded \expndtw3 of his order, he looked more dedicated to war than to God. But the lady smiled and asked their destination.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I live in a castle up the road," said John quickly in \expndtw3 Norman French. Unlike his friends, he was dressed in \expndtw-1 the mode of a young gentleman, with a tunic of plum-colored linen instead of cheap muslin, and a samite belt brocaded with silver threads. Thus, he must be their spokesman. "I have come with my friends to search for \expndtw3 chestnuts in the woods, and now we are going home."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The knight darkened his frown to a baleful glare and \expndtw-2 reined his steed, as if he suspected John of stealing a fine \expndtw-1 tunic to masquerade as the son of a gentleman. Boys of \expndtw0 noble birth, even of twelve, did not as a rule go nutting with villeins whom they called their friends, and not at \expndtw2 such an hour.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1618\cf1\expndtw-13\fs22 32\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri43\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "We have passed no castle for many miles," he \expndtw1 growled, laying a thick-veined hand on the hilt of his \expndtw-5 sword.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "My father's is well off the road, and the keep is low," \expndtw3 answered John without hesitation. "In fact, it is called \expndtw0 the Tortoise, and it is \i very \i0 hard to break, like a tortoise \expndtw3 shell. Many a baron has tried!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Mind you get back to the Tortoise before dark," the \expndtw-1 lady admonished. "You haven't a shell yourself, and the \expndtw-2 Stane is dangerous after nightfall. My protector and I are \expndtw1 bound for the castle of our friend, Philip the Boar. Is it \expndtw3 far, do you know?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "About two leagues," said John, and he gave her \expndtw-2 explicit directions in French so assured and polished that \expndtw-1 no one, not even the glowering knight, could doubt his Norman blood and his noble birth. It was always true of \expndtw2 him that he was only frightened in anticipation. Now, \expndtw-1 with a wave and a courtly bow, he bade them God-speed to the castle of the Boar, received a smile from the lady, \expndtw2 and led his friends toward the mythical Tortoise.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Such a handsome lad," he heard the lady exclaim, \expndtw3 "and manly as well."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "If I hadn't been so scared," said Stephen, once a \expndtw-2 comfortable distance separated them from the knight, his \expndtw2 lady, and the unresponsive servant, "I'd have split my \expndtw-2 tunic when you said your castle was named the Tortoise. \expndtw4 There isn't a castle for the next ten miles! It's the first fib I ever heard you tell."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "You were scared too?" asked John, surprised at such \expndtw-2 an admission.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "You can bet your belt I was! They were lovers, you \expndtw3 know. Bound for a tryst at the castle of the Boar. He \expndtw1 winks at such things, I hear. Runs a regular brothel for \expndtw-2 the gentry, including himself. That lady has a husband somewhere, and the Knight Templar might just have run \expndtw3 us through to keep us from carrying tales."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 With the fall of darkness, they selected a broad and voluminous oak tree, rather like a thicket set on the mast \expndtw3 of a ship, and between them the boys helped Ruth to \expndtw0 climb the trunk. With nimble hands, she prepared a nest \expndtw-2 of leaves and moss in the crook of the tree and, having \expndtw0 removed her clogs and hidden them, along with her cru-\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1382\tx5021\cf1\expndtw1\fs22 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-12 33\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri48\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 cifix, settled herself with the comfort of perfect familiar\-ity. She seemed to have a talent for nests, above or below \expndtw-3 the ground.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 After she had eaten some bread and cheese and drunk beer, she returned to the ground, stubbornly refusing \expndtw-3 assistance from either boy, and showed herself a more than adept climber.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "Is she angry with us?" asked John.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "She drank all that beer," explained Stephen, "and \expndtw-5 while she's gone\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 They scrambled to the edge of the nest and, bracing themselves against a limb, aimed at the next oak. Glee\-fully, John pretended that Ruth was crouching under the \expndtw-7 branches.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 He was sorry to see her emerge from an elm instead \expndtw0 of the inundated oak and rejoin them in the nest.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "I was looking for rushes to keep us warm," she said. "But I didn't find a single one. We'll have to lie close \expndtw-5 together." She chose the middle of the nest, anticipating, \expndtw-4 no doubt, a boy to warm her on either side, and Stephen \expndtw-3 obligingly stretched on her left.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 With the speed and deftness of Lucifer disguised as a \expndtw-2 serpent, John wriggled between them, forcing Ruth to \expndtw1 the far side of the nest. Much to his disappointment, \expndtw-5 she accepted the arrangement without protest and leaned \expndtw-3 against him with a fragrance of galangal, the aromatic \expndtw-4 plant imported from Outre-Mer and used as a base for \expndtw-2 perfume by the ladies of England.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "The stars are bright tonight," she said. "See, John, there's Arcturus peeping through the leaves, and there's \expndtw-5 Sinus, the North Star. The Vikings called it the Lamp of \expndtw-1 the Wanderer."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li38\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Stephen nudged him as if to say: "You see! Only an angel knows such things."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "Stephen," he whispered.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "Yes?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "I'm not afraid anymore. Of leaving the castle. Not even of the forest!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "Aren't you, John?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi-82\li336\ri960\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs24 "Because I'm not alone." \expndtw-1 I told you we were safe with our angel."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "I don't mean the angel." He made a pillow of Ste-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1608\cf1\expndtw-10\fs21 34\expndtw0\tab\i Thomas Burnett\b  \b0 Swann\cf0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 phen's shoulder, and the scent of dogs and haylofts, \expndtw0 effaced Ruth's galangal.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Go to sleep, little brother. Dream about London\emdash  \expndtw4 and the Holy Land."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 But fear returned to John before he could dream. At \expndtw0 an hour with the feel of midnight, chill and misty and hushed of owls, he was roused by the blast of a horn and \expndtw-2 a simultaneous shriek like that of a hundred otters caught \expndtw-1 in a millwheel. The sounds seemed to come from a dis\-\expndtw0 tance and yet were harsh enough to make him throw up \expndtw2 his hands to his ears.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Hunters have found a Mandrake!" cried Stephen, sit\-\expndtw4 ting up in the nest. "It's a moonless night, and it must \expndtw0 be just after twelve. That's when they hunt, you know. \expndtw-1 They blow on a horn to muffle the shriek. Let's see what \expndtw2 they've caught."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 But John was not eager to leave the tree. "If they've \expndtw0 killed a Mandrake, they won't want to share it. Besides, \expndtw2 they might be brigands."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Ruth had also been roused by the shriek. "John is \expndtw-1 right," she said. "You shouldn't want to see such a horri\-\expndtw4 ble sight. A baby torn from the earth!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "I'll stay and keep Ruth company," said John, but \expndtw-2 Stephen hauled him out of the nest and sent him slipping \expndtw2 and scraping down the trunk.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "But we can't leave Ruth alone!" he groaned, picking \expndtw2 himself up from a bed of acorns.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Angels don't need protection. Hurry now, or we'll \expndtw2 miss the hunters."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 They found the Mandrake hunters across the road and \expndtw0 deep among the trees, a pair of rough woodsmen, father \expndtw4 and son to judge from their height, build, and flaxen \expndtw-1 hair, though the elder was as bent and brown as a much-\expndtw3 used sickle, and his son wore a patch over one of his \expndtw-1 eyes. The woodsmen were contemplating a dead Man\-drake the size and shape of a new-born baby, except for \expndtw0 the dirt-trailing tendrils, the outsized genitals, and the greenish tangle of hair which had grown above ground \expndtw2 with purple, bell-shaped flowers. The pathetic body \expndtw0 twitched like a hatcheted chicken. Dead at its side and \expndtw4 bound to it by a rope lay a dog with bloody ears.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Though the night was moonless and the great stars,\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1387\tx5030\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 35\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri38\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 Arcturus and Sirius, were veiled by the mist of the forest, \expndtw-3 one of the hunters carried a lantern, and John saw the \expndtw-5 Mandrake, the dog, the blood in an eerie, flickering light \expndtw-3 which made him remember Lucifer's fall to Hell and \expndtw-1 wonder if he and Stephen had fallen after him.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 One of the woodsmen saw them. "Might have gotten \expndtw-7 yourselves killed, both of you," he scolded, digging bees\-\expndtw-3 wax out of his ears with his little finger. "Laid out like \expndtw-4 that old hound with busted eardrums." He removed a \expndtw-5 long-bladed knife from his tunic and under his father's \expndtw0 direction\emdash "no, no, clean and quick \expndtw48 ...\expndtw0  cut it, don't \expndtw-4 bruise it"\emdash sliced the Mandrake into little rootlike por\-\expndtw-5 tions, resinous rather than bloody, which he wrapped in \expndtw1 strips of muslin and placed carefully in a sharkskin \expndtw-8 pouch.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "One less of the devils," muttered the father, unbend\-\expndtw-5 ing himself to a rake instead of a sickle. "Another week \expndtw-4 and it'd have climbed right out of the ground. Joined its \expndtw-1 folk in the warrens."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "A Richard's ransom in aphroaphro\i disiacs\i0 !" stuttered the son, completing the word with a flourish of triumph. \expndtw-4 The market for Mandrake roots was lucrative and inex\-\expndtw-6 haustible: aging barons deserted by sexual powers; lovers \expndtw-1 whose love was unrequited. From Biblical times, the \expndtw-2 times of Jacob and Leah, the root had been recognized \expndtw-6 as the one infallible aphrodisiac. Yes, a Richard's ransom \expndtw-7 was hardly an overstatement. A man would pay gold and \expndtw-6 silver, land and livestock, to win his love or resurrect his \expndtw-7 lust.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li29\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 When the woodsmen had finished their grisly disec-\expndtw-5 tion, the son smiled at the boys and offered them a frag\-\expndtw-4 ment the size of a small pea. "You fellows put this in a \expndtw-1 girl's gruel, and she'll climb all over you."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "He doesn't need it," said John, intercepting the gift. "Girls climb over him as it is. Like ants on a crock of \expndtw-6 sugar!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li29\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "But you need it, eh?" laughed the son, winking his \expndtw-1 single eye at John. One-eyed serfs were common in \expndtw0 France and England, and most of them had lost their eyes to angry masters and not in fights. Perhaps the \expndtw-1 young woodsman had not been prompt to deliver fire-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1613\cf1\expndtw-15\fs22 36\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs24 wood for the hearth in a great hall. "Now you'll be the \expndtw-1 crock. But where's the sugar?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "He'll have it," said Stephen, noticing John's embar\-\expndtw-4 rassment. "Sugar enough for a nest! Give him a year or \expndtw-1 two. He's only twelve." Then he pointed to the carcass \expndtw-4 of the dog. "Did you have to use a greyhound? Couldn't you have done it yourselves? After all, you had the wax \expndtw0 in your ears."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "Everyone knows a dog gives a sharper jerk. Gets the \expndtw-4 whole Mandrake at once. Lake pulling a tooth, root and \expndtw-5 all. Besides, he was an old dog. Not many more years in \expndtw-1 his bones. We can buy a whole kennel with what we \expndtw0 make from the root."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi197\li29\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 When the men had departed, talking volubly about the sale of their treasure at the next fair, and how they would spend their money in secret and keep their lord from his \expndtw-2 customary third, the boys buried the dog.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "I wish they had put beeswax in his ears too," said \expndtw-4 Stephen bitterly. "And see where they whipped him to \expndtw-3 make him jump!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "Beeswax doesn't help a dog," said John. "At least I \expndtw2 read that in a bestiary. His ears are so keen that the \expndtw-2 shriek penetrates the wax and kills him anyway."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "It's no wonder the Mandrakes eat us. The way we \expndtw-4 drag their babies from the ground and cut them up! If it \expndtw-5 weren't for my parents, I could pity the poor little brutes. \expndtw-6 Now, a lot of dirty old men will strut like coxcombs and \expndtw-3 chase after kitchen wenches."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li48\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "I suppose," said John, who had furtively buried the \expndtw-1 fragment of Mandrake with the dog, "the question is, \expndtw-3 who started eating whom first." Then he clutched Ste\-\expndtw1 phen's hand and said: "I think I'm going to be sick."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li58\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "No, you're not," said Stephen, steadying John with his arm, "We're going back to the tree and get some \expndtw-3 sleep."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li62\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 But Stephen was trembling too; John could feel the \expndtw-3 tremors in his arm. He's sad for the dog, he thought. I \expndtw-2\i won't \i0 be sick. It would only make him sadder.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li72\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 Ruth was waiting for them with a look which they could not read in the misted light of the stars.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li77\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "We're sorry we left you so long," said Stephen, "but \expndtw1 the hunters had just killed a Mandrake, and . . ."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1382\tx5040\cf1\expndtw2\fs22 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-14 37\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li211\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "I don't want to hear about it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Mandrakes can't climb trees, can they?" asked John. \expndtw4 "The parents might be about, you know."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Of course they can climb trees," said Stephen, who \expndtw-3 was very knowledgeable about the woods and improvised \expndtw2 what he did not know. "They \i are \i0 trees, in a way. Roots \expndtw4 at least."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Do you think they suspect we're up here? They can't \expndtw4 see us, but can they sniff us out?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "I wish you two would stop talking about Mandrakes," \expndtw2 snapped Ruth. "You would think they surrounded us, when everyone knows the poor creatures are almost \expndtw1 extinct."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Stephen's parents were killed by Mandrakes," said \expndtw1 John sharply. He would have liked to slap the girl. She \expndtw0 had a genius for interruptions or improprieties. It was proper and generous for Stephen to express compassion for a Mandrake baby, but unforgivable for this ignorant girl to sympathize with the whole murderous race. Her \expndtw-1 ethereal origins now seemed about as likely to him as an \expndtw1 angel dancing on the head of a pin, a possibility which, \expndtw-1 to John's secret amusement, his Abbot had often debated with utmost seriousness.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 Ruth gave a cry. "I didn't know."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "How could you?" said Stephen. "At least the ones \expndtw-2 who killed my parents fought like men. They didn't sneak \expndtw3 up in the dark. They stormed out of the forest before \expndtw1 dusk, waving their filthy arms and swinging clubs. We \expndtw-2 had a chance against them\emdash except my mother, who was \expndtw4 bringing us beer in the fields. We were haying at the \expndtw-2 time and we had our scythes for weapons. They only got \expndtw1 one of us besides my parents, and we got four of them. \expndtw-1 It's the females who're really dangerous\emdash the young ones who pass for human and come to live in the towns. The \expndtw0 males can't do it; they're much too hairy right from the \expndtw-1 start, and\emdash well, \i you \i0 know. Too well endowed. But the \expndtw4 little girls look human, at least on the outside. Inside, \expndtw0 it's a different matter\emdash resin instead of blood; brown \expndtw1 skeletons which're\emdash what would you call them, John?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Fibrous."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Ruth listened in silence and shrank herself into a little \expndtw3 ball. Like a diadem spider, thought John, with brilliant\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1618\cf1\expndtw-15\fs22 38\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\ri43\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 gold patterns. Drawing in her legs and looking half her \expndtw-8 size.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Tell her about them, John," said Stephen, who was \expndtw0 getting breathless from such a long speech. "You know the whole story." And then to Ruth: "He knows every\-\expndtw-1 thing. French, English, Latin. All our kings and queens \expndtw1 from Arthur down to bad old King John. Even those \expndtw0 naughty pagan goddesses who went about naked and \expndtw3 married their brothers."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 John was delighted to continue the history. He liked \expndtw-1 to deliver lectures, but nobody except Stephen ever lis\-\expndtw3 tened to him.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li19\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "In the old days, before the Crusades," said John, who \expndtw3 warmed to his tale like a traveling story teller, "in the \expndtw-2 old days the Mandrakes lived in the forest, and they were \expndtw-1 so dirty and hairy that you could never mistake them for \expndtw2 human. They weren't particular about their diet. They \expndtw0 liked any meat\emdash animal or human\emdash and they trapped \expndtw-1 hunters in nets and roasted them over hot coals and then strewed their bones on the ground as we do with drum\-sticks at Michaelmas." Here, like a skilled jongleur, he \expndtw5 paused and looked at Ruth to gauge the effect of his \expndtw-1 tale. The sight of her reassured him. If she pressed any \expndtw0 harder against the edge of the nest, she would roll from \expndtw2 the tree. "But one day a little Mandrake girl wandered \expndtw4 out of the forest, and a simple blacksmith took her for \expndtw5 a lost human child, naked and dirty from the woods, \expndtw-1 and took her into his family. The child grew plump and \expndtw-2 beautiful, the man and his wife grew peaked, and every\-\expndtw2 one said how generous it was for a poor blacksmith to \expndtw-2 give his choicest food\emdash and there wasn't much food that \expndtw3 winter for anyone\emdash to a foundling. But in the summer \expndtw-3 the girl was run down and killed by a wagon loaded with \expndtw8 hay. The townspeople were all ready to garrot the \expndtw-3 driver\emdash until they noticed that the girl's blood was a mix\-\expndtw3 ture of normal red fluid and thick, viscous resin."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "What does 'viscous' mean?" interrupted Stephen.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Gluey. Like that stuff that comes out of a spider when \expndtw0 she's spinning her web. Thus, it was learned that Man\-\expndtw2 drakes are vampires as well as cannibals, and that the \expndtw0 more they feed on humans, the less resinous their blood \expndtw1 becomes, until the resin is almost replaced, though their\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1397\tx5050\cf1\expndtw-5\fs23 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 39\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri62\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 bones never do turn white. But they have to keep on feeding or else their blood will revert.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Well, the Mandrakes heard about the girl\emdash from a \expndtw0 runaway thief, no doubt, before they ate him\emdash and how \expndtw-1 she had 'passed' until the accident. They decided to send \expndtw-2 some more of their girls into the villages, where life was \expndtw-1 easier than in the forest. Some of the Mandrakes slipped \expndtw1 into houses at night and left their babies, well-scrubbed \expndtw2 of course, in exchange for humans, which they carried \expndtw0 off into the woods for you can imagine what foul pur\-\expndtw-1 poses. The next morning the family would think that the \expndtw2 fairies had brought them a changeling, and everyone \expndtw-2 knows that if you disown a fairy's child, you'll have bad \expndtw3 luck for the rest of your life. It was a long time before the plan of the Mandrakes became generally known \expndtw5 around the forest. Now, whenever a mother finds a \expndtw3 strange baby in her crib, or a new child wanders into \expndtw1 town, it's usually stuck with a knife. If resin flows out, \expndtw-1 the child is suffocated and burned. Still, an occasional \expndtw2 Mandrake does manage to pass.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "You see, they aren't at all like the Crusaders in the \expndtw-2 last century who became vampires when they marched \expndtw3 through Hungary\emdash the Hungarian campfollowers, \expndtw-1 remember, gave them the sickness, and then the Crusad\-\expndtw3 ers brought it back to England. They had to break the \expndtw5 skin to get at your blood, and they had a cadaverous \expndtw4 look about them before they fed, and then they grew \expndtw5 pink and bloated. It was no problem to recognize and\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li43\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 burn them. But the Mandrake girls, by pressing their lips \expndtw5 against your skin, can draw blood right through the \expndtw0 pores, and the horrible thing is that they don't look like \expndtw-2 vampires and sometimes they don't even know what they \expndtw2 are or how they were born from a seed in the ground. \expndtw0 They feed in a kind of dream and forget everything the \expndtw2 next morning."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sb5\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "I think it's monstrous," said Ruth.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li53\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "They are, aren't they?" agreed John happily, satisfied \expndtw2 that his story had been a success.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Not \i them. \i0 I\i  \i0 mean sticking babies with knives."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "But how else can you tell them from roots? It's \expndtw-1 because a few people are sentimental like you that Man\-\expndtw2 drakes still manage to pass."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1618\cf1\expndtw-13\fs22 40\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri58\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Frankly," said Ruth, "I don't think Mandrakes pass \expndtw2 at all. I think they keep to themselves in the forest and \expndtw-2 eat venison and berries and \i not \i0 hunters. Now go to sleep. \expndtw3 From what you've told me, it's a long way to London. \expndtw4 We all need some rest."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Good night," said Stephen.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Sweet dreams," said Ruth\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li24\ri38\sb667\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 The next morning, the sun was a Saracen shield in the \expndtw-5 sky\emdash Saladin's Shield, a Crusader would have said\emdash and \expndtw-3 the forest twinkled with paths of sunlight and small white \expndtw-1 birds which spun in the air or perched on limbs and con\-\expndtw3 stantly flickered their tails. Ruth and Stephen stood in the crook of the tree and smiled down at John as he \expndtw0 opened his eyes.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "We decided to let you sleep," said Stephen. "You grunted like a boar when I first shook you. So we fol\-\expndtw2 lowed a wagtail to find some breakfast."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "And found you some wild strawberries," said Ruth, \expndtw0 her lips becomingly red from the fruit. She gave him a \expndtw-1 deep, brimming bowl. "I wove it from sedges." For one who professed an ignorance of the forest, she possessed some remarkable skills.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Once on the ground, they finished their breakfast with three-cornered, burry beechnuts, which required some skillful pounding and deft fingers to extract the kernels; and Ruth, appropriating Stephen's beer, took such a gen\-\expndtw2 erous swallow that she drained the flask.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "To wash down the beechnuts," she explained.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I don't know why the pigs like them so much," said \expndtw3 Stephen. "They're not worth the trouble of shelling."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "The pigs don't shell them," reminded the practical \expndtw0 John.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "Anyway," continued Stephen, "we hadn't much \expndtw3 choice in this part of the forest. We found a stream \expndtw2 though." Hoisting the pouch which held their remnants \expndtw5 of food and their few extra garments, he said: "Ruth, \expndtw4 get your bundle and let's take a swim."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li77\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "I hid it," she reminded him, almost snappishly. \expndtw2 "There may be thieves about. I'll get it after we swim."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1387\tx5035\cf1\expndtw-10\fs24 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-22 41\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri29\sb202\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 All that mystery about a crucifix, thought John. As if \expndtw-3 she suspected Stephen and me of being brigands. And \expndtw0 after she drank our beer!\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li5\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 The stream idled instead of gushed, and pepperwort, \expndtw-5 shaped like four-leafed clovers, grew in the quiet waters \expndtw-4 along the banks. Stephen, who took a monthly bath in a tub with the stable hands while the daughters of villeins \expndtw-5 doused him with water, hurried to pull his tunic over his \expndtw-3 head. He was justly proud of his body and had once \expndtw2 remarked to John, "The less I wear, the better I look. \expndtw-2 In a gentleman's clothes like yours, I'd still be a yokel. But naked\emdash ! Even gentlewomen seem to stare."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 But John was quick to restore the proprieties. In the \expndtw-1 presence of Ruth, he had no intention of showing his \expndtw-6 thin, white body, or allowing Stephen to show his radiant nakedness.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi226\li10\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "You can swim first," he said to her. "Stephen and I will wait in the woods."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li10\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "No," she laughed. "You go first. Stephen is already down to his breechclout, and \i that \i0 is about to fall. But I \expndtw0 won't be far away."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "You won't peep, will you?" John called after her, but \expndtw-4 Ruth, striding into the forest as if she had a destination, \expndtw-3 did not answer him.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li24\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 The stream was chilly in spite of the Saracen sun. John \expndtw-5 huddled among the pepperwort, the water as high as his \expndtw-2 knees, till Stephen drenched him with a monumental \expndtw0 splash, and then they frolicked among the plants and \expndtw-5 into the current and scraped each other's backs with sand \expndtw-4 scooped from the bottom and, as far as John was con\-cerned, Ruth and the road to London could wait till the \expndtw-8 Second Coming!\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 When they climbed at last on the bank, they rolled in \expndtw-6 the grass to dry their bodies. Stephen, an expert wrestler, \expndtw-5 surprised John with what he called his amphisbaena grip; \expndtw-4 his arms snaked around John's body like the ends of the \expndtw-1 two-headed serpent and flattened him on the ground.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "I'm holding you for ransom," he cried, perched on \expndtw-2 John's chest like the seasprite Dylan astride a dolphin. "Six flagons of beer with roasted malt!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 "I promise\emdash " John began, and freed himself with such \expndtw2 a burst of strength that Stephen sprawled in the grass\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1622\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 42\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Thomas Burnett Swarm\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw8\fs23 beneath the lesser but hardly less insistent weight of \expndtw1 John. "I promise you sixteen ticks with an abbot's rod!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri77\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Stephen was not disgruntled. "By Robin's bow," he \expndtw3 cried, "you've learned all my tricks!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I guess we had better dress," said John, releasing his \expndtw-2 friend to avoid another reversal. "Ruth will want to swim \expndtw2 too. I hope she didn't peep," he added, looking askance \expndtw-1 at some furiously agitated ferns beyond the grassy bank. \expndtw2 To his great relief, they disgorged a white wagtail and not a girl. Still, something had frightened the bird.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "What do you think she would see?" laughed Stephen.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "You," said John, eyeing his friend with an admiration \expndtw-3 which was more wistful than envious. Stephen was a boy \expndtw2 with a man's body, "roseate-brown from toe to crown," \expndtw5 to quote a popular song, and comely enough to tempt \expndtw-1 an angel. When he shook his wet hair, a great armful of \expndtw3 daffodils seemed to bestrew his head. A marriage of beauty and strength, thought John. For the hundredth \expndtw-2 time he marveled that such a boy could have chosen him \expndtw3 for a brother; actually chosen, when they had no bond \expndtw2 of blood, nor even of race. He peered down at himself \expndtw-1 and wished for his clothes. At the castle he never bathed \expndtw0 in the tub with his father's friends: only with Stephen, \expndtw2 sometimes, in the stream of the old millwheel, or alone \expndtw-2 in the heath from his own little bucket (even in the castle, \expndtw4 he had no private room, but slept with the rancid sons \expndtw1 of his father's knights).\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li53\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 But Stephen said: "You know, John, you're not so skinny now. You've started to fill out. The bones are \expndtw0 there. The strength too, as you just proved. All you need \expndtw1 is a little more meat. You'll be a man before you know \expndtw6 it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li58\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Next year?" asked John, though such a prospect \expndtw-2 seemed as far from his grasp as a fiery-plummaged phoe\-\expndtw5 nix. "You were a man at thirteen."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li62\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Eleven. But I'm different. I'm a villein. We grow fast. With you, I'd say two or possibly three more years. Then \expndtw3 we can wench together for sure."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li283\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Who would want me when she could have you?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li72\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 Stephen led him to the bank of the stream. "Look," \expndtw4 he said, and pointed to their reflections in a space of \expndtw1 clear water between the pepperworts: the bright and the\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1387\tx5035\cf1\expndtw-2\fs22 THE MANOR\b  \b0 OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-14 43\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri48\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 dark, side by side; the two faces of the moon. "I have \expndtw0 muscles, yes. But you have brains. They show in your \expndtw1 face."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "I don't like my face. I won't even look in those glass \expndtw2 mirrors they bring back from the Holy Land. I always \expndtw3 look startled."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Not as much as you did. Why, just since we left the \expndtw2 castle, I've seen a change. Yesterday, when you faced \expndtw3 down the Knight Templar, I was ready to wet my \expndtw5 breechclout! But you never batted an eye. And you \expndtw-3 looked so wise. One day you'll have my muscles, but you \expndtw-1 can bet a brace of pheasants I'll never have your brains. \expndtw4 Come on now, let's give Ruth a chance."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 At Stephen's insistence\emdash and he had to insist vigor\-\expndtw-2 ously\emdash they bundled their tunics and wore only their \expndtw1 breechclouts, the shapeless strips of cloth which every \expndtw2 man, whether priest, baron, or peasant, twisted around \expndtw-1 his loins. Now they would look like field hands stripped \expndtw3 for a hot day's work, and John's fine tunic would not \expndtw1 arouse suspicion or tempt thieves.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "But my shoulders," John began, "they're so white."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "They'll brown in the sun on the way to London," he \expndtw4 said, and then: \i "Ruth, \i0 you can take your swim!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 He had to repeat her name before she answered in a \expndtw3 thin, distant voice: "Yes, Stephen?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "You can swim now. You'll have the stream to your\-\expndtw0 self." To John he smiled, "She took you seriously about \expndtw4 not peeping. But you know, John, \i we \i0 didn't promise."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "You'd spy on an angel?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Stephen slapped his back. "Now who's calling her an \expndtw3 angel. No, I wouldn't spy. I'd just \i think \i0 about it. I've \expndtw0 always wondered if angels are built like girls. Let's do a bit of exploring while she bathes. I could eat another \expndtw2 breakfast after that swim. But we mustn't stray too far \expndtw4 from the stream."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Beyond a coppice of young beeches, Stephen discov\-\expndtw5 ered a cluster of slender stalks with fragrant, wispy \expndtw1 leaves. "Fennels. Good for the fever you catch in Lon\-\expndtw4 don. We might pick a few, roots and all."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 But John, thinking of Mandrakes, had no use for roots \expndtw3 and followed his nose to a bed of mint. "This is what your mother used to sweeten her gowns, isn't it?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1622\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 44\expndtw0\tab\expndtw3\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri34\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Yes, and it's also good to eat." They knelt in the \expndtw-3 moist soil to pluck and chew the leaves, whose sweetly \expndtw-2 burning juices left them hoarse and breathless, as if they \expndtw2 had gulped a heady muscatel.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 But where was the stream, the road, the oak in which \expndtw2 they had slept?\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "The trees all look the same," said Stephen, "but \expndtw2 there, that old beech. Haven't we seen it before? And \expndtw4 there, the torn ground\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 They had wandered, it seemed, to the place of the \expndtw1 Mandrake hunt. The hole remained in the earth, dis\-\expndtw4 turbingly human-shaped, with branching clefts from \expndtw1 which the limbs had been wrenched by the hapless dog.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Let's get away from here," said John, as nausea \expndtw2 slapped him like the foul air of a \i garderobe.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Wait," said Stephen. "There's a second hole. It's\emdash  \expndtw6 it's where we buried the dog. \i God's bowels!" \i0 It was \expndtw2 his crudest oath. "The dirty Infidels have dug him up \expndtw-3 and\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 Around the hole they saw a Utter of bones . . . skull \expndtw3 . . . femur . . . pelvis \expndtw45 ...\expndtw3  stripped of their meat and \expndtw1 scattered carelessly through the grass.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Stephen," said John, seizing his friend's hand. "I \expndtw-1 know how you feel. It was cruel of them to eat the dog. \expndtw0 But we've got to get away from here. They'll take us for \expndtw4 the hunter!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Something had waited for them.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 At first it looked like a tree. No, a corpse exhumed \expndtw-1 from a grave with roots entwining its limbs. It wheezed; \expndtw0 lurched; moved, swaying, toward them. It was bleached to the color of a beechnut trunk\emdash at least, those parts of \expndtw2 the skin (or was it bark?) which showed through the \expndtw4 greenish forest of hair (or rootlets?). Red eyes burned \expndtw-1 in black hollows (tiny fire-dragons peering from caves, \expndtw1 thought John). The mouth seemed a single hairlip until \expndtw2 it split into a grin which revealed triangular teeth like \expndtw4 those of a shark: to crush, tear, shred.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "Run!" screamed John, tugging at his friend, but \expndtw2 proud Stephen had chosen to fight.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Dog-eater!" He charged the Mandrake and used his \expndtw4 head for a ram.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 The creature buckled like a rotten door but flung out\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1387\tx5040\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 45\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri53\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 its limbs and enveloped Stephen into its fall; fallen, it \expndtw5 seemed a vegetable octopus, lashing viny tentacles \expndtw1 around its prey.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Unlike Stephen, John grew cold with anger instead of \expndtw3 hot; blue instead of flushed; as if he had plunged in a \expndtw0 river through broken ice. First he was stunned. Then the \expndtw-3 frost-caves of his brain functioned with crystalline clarity. \expndtw-1 He knew that he was young and relatively weak; against \expndtw1 that bark-tough skin, his naked fists would beat in vain. A blind, weaponless charge would not avail his friend. \expndtw-1 He fell to his knees and mole-like clawed the ground. \expndtw0 Pebbles. Pine cones. Beechnuts. Pretty, petty, useless. \expndtw4 Then, a stone, large and jagged. With raw, bleeding \expndtw0 hands, he wrestled the earth for his desperately needed \expndtw2 weapon and, without regaining his feet, lunged at the \expndtw1 fallen Mandrake. The fibrous skull cracked and splin\-\expndtw-2 tered sickeningly beneath the stone and spewed him with \expndtw0 resin and green vegetable matter like a cabbage crushed by a millstone.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Stephen!" he cried, but the answer hissed above him, shrill with loathing:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Human!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 Multitudinous fingers caught and bound him with coils \expndtw0 of wild grapevine and dragged him, together with Ste\-\expndtw3 phen, over the bruising earth.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li43\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The Mandrake warrens were not so much habitations \expndtw-2 as lightless catacombs for avoiding men and animals. No \expndtw4 one knew if the creatures had built them or found, \expndtw0 enlarged, and connected natural caves and covered the \expndtw-3 floors with straw. John was painfully conscious as his thin \expndtw-1 body, little protected by the shreds of his breechclout, \expndtw1 lurched and scraped down a tortuous passage like the \expndtw0 throat of a dragon. His captors, he guessed, could see in \expndtw3 the dark, but only the scraping of Stephen's body told \expndtw4 him that he had not been separated from his friend.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li53\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw8\fs23 "Mother of God," he breathed, "let him stay \expndtw-3 unconscious!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 For a long time he had to judge their passage from \expndtw2 room to room by the sudden absence of straw which \expndtw-2 marked a doorway. Finally, a dim, capricious light an\-\expndtw0 nounced their approach to a fire; a council chamber per\-\expndtw4 haps; the end of the brutal journey.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1618\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 46\expndtw0\tab\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri43\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The room of the fire was a round, spacious chamber \expndtw-2 where Mandrake females were silently engaged in piling \expndtw4 chunks of peat on a bed of coals. Neither roots nor \expndtw-1 branches were used as fuel, John saw, since that which \expndtw-2 began as a root did not use wood for any purpose. Wryly he wondered how the Mandrakes would feel if they knew \expndtw3 that the fuel they burned had once been vegetation.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Their captors dumped them as men might deposit logs \expndtw4 beside a hearth, and joined the women in feeding the \expndtw-1 fire. John was tightly trussed, his feet crossed, his hands \expndtw7 behind his back, but he rolled his body to lie on his \expndtw0 side and look at Stephen's face. His friend's cheeks were \expndtw-2 scratched; his forehead was blue with a large bruise; and \expndtw2 the daffodils of his hair were wilted with blood and \expndtw-5 cobwebs.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Stephen, Stephen, what have they done to you?" he whispered, biting his lip to stifle the threat of tears. His \expndtw-2 hero, fallen, moved him to tenderness transcending wor\-\expndtw2 ship. For once he had to be strong for Stephen. He had to think of escape.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 He examined the room. There were neither beds nor pallets. Apparently the Mandrakes slept in the smaller \expndtw3 rooms and used their council chamber as a baron used \expndtw0 his hall. It was here that they met to talk and feast. The \expndtw-1 earthen walls were blackened from many fires. Bones \expndtw3 littered the straw, together with teeth, fur, and hair; \expndtw-1 inedible items. The stench of the refuse was overpower\-\expndtw6 ing and, coupled with that of excrement and urine, \expndtw-2 almost turned John's stomach. He fought nausea by won\-\expndtw-1 dering how his fastidious Abbot would have faced the \expndtw0 situation: identified himself, no doubt, with Hercules in \expndtw-1 the Aegean stables or Christ amid the corruptions of the \expndtw-3 Temple.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Then, across the room, he saw the crucifix. Yes, it was \expndtw0 unmistakable, a huge stone cross. Latin, with arms of \expndtw-1 unequal length, and set in an alcove shaped like an apse. \expndtw0 Turtle-backed stones served as seats. Between the seats \expndtw3 the ground had been packed and brushed by the knees \expndtw-1 of suppliants. The place was clearly a chapel, and John \expndtw-3 remembered the tale\emdash a myth, he had always supposed\emdash  \expndtw2 that after the Christians had come to England with \expndtw5 Augustine, a priest had visited the Mandrakes in their\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1402\tx5059\cf1\expndtw2\fs22 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-14 47\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 warrens. Once they had eaten him, they had reconsid\-\expndtw2 ered his words and adopted Christianity.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Bantling-killer!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 A Mandrake slouched above him, exuding a smell of \expndtw0 tarns stagnant with scum. His voice was gutteral and at \expndtw3 first unintelligible. Bantling-killer. Of course. \i Baby-\expndtw6\i0 killer. The creature was speaking an early form of \expndtw1 English. He went on to curse all athelings in their byr-\expndtw-2 nies\emdash knights in their mail\emdash and to wish that the whale-\expndtw2 road would swallow that last of them as they sailed to \expndtw-1 their wars in ring-prowed ships of wood. Then, having \expndtw1 blasted John's people, he became specific and accused \expndtw-1 John and Stephen of having killed the bantling with their \expndtw-2 dog. \i His\i0  bantling, he growled, grown from his own seed. \expndtw0 Though the Mandrakes copulated like men and animals, \expndtw2 John gathered that their females gave birth to objects \expndtw-1 resembling acorns which they planted in the ground and \expndtw0 nurtured into roots. If allowed by hunters to reach matu\-\expndtw3 rity, the roots burst from the ground like a turtle out of \expndtw0 an egg, and their mothers bundled them into the warrens \expndtw-1 to join the tribe\emdash hence, the word "bantling" from "ban-\expndtw7 tie" or "bundle."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "No," John shook his head. "No. We did not kill your \expndtw3 baby. Your bantling. It was hunters who killed him!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 The creature grinned. A grin, it seemed, was a Man\-\expndtw1 drake's one expression; anger or pleasure provoked the \expndtw2 same bared teeth. Otherwise, he looked as vacant as a \expndtw-3 cabbage.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "Hunters," he said. "You."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li62\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The crowded room had grown as hot as the kitchen \expndtw0 before a feast in a castle, but the figures tending the fire, \expndtw3 hunched as if with the weight of dirt, toil, and time, \expndtw-2 seemed impervious to the heat. They had obviously built \expndtw3 the fire to cook their dinner, and now they began to \expndtw5 sharpen stakes on weathered stones. Even the stakes \expndtw2 were tin instead of wood.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li72\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The whir of the flames must have alerted the young \expndtw1 Mandrakes in the adjacent chambers. They trooped into \expndtw0 the room and gathered, gesticulating, around the two \expndtw3 captives. They had not yet lapsed into the tired shuffle \expndtw2 of their elders; they looked both energetic and intelli\-\expndtw0 gent. Life in the forest, it seemed, slowly stultified quick\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1618\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 48\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri29\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 minds and supple bodies. It was not surprising that the \expndtw-6 weary elders, however they hated men, should try to pass \expndtw-3 their daughters into the villages.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 The girls John saw, except for one, appeared to be \expndtw-5 adolescents, but hair had already forested their arms and \expndtw-3 thickened their lips. The one exception, a child of per\-\expndtw1 haps four, twinkled a wistful prettiness through her \expndtw-3 grime. Her eyes had not yet reddened and sunken into \expndtw-4 their sockets; her mouth was the color of wild raspber\-\expndtw-3 ries. She could still have passed.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 The children seemed to have come from the midst of \expndtw-4 a game. Dice, it appeared, from the small white objects they rattled, a little like the whale-bone cubes which \expndtw-5 delighted the knights in John's castle. But the dice of the Mandrake children were not so much cubes as irregular, bony lumps scratched with figures. The Greeks, John recalled from the Abbot's lectures, had used the knuckle\-\expndtw-2 bones of sheep and other animals in place of cubes.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 But the Mandrake children had found a livelier game. \expndtw-1 They stripped John and Stephen of their breechclouts \expndtw-5 and began to prod their flesh with ringers like sharp car\-\expndtw-4 rots and taunt them for the inadequacy of human loins. \expndtw-5 The Mandrake boys, naked like their parents, possessed \expndtw-4 enormous genitals; hence, the potency of the murdered, \expndtw-6 fragmented roots as aphrodisiacs. Stephen stirred fitfully \expndtw-1 but to John's relief did not awake to find himself the \expndtw-6 object of ridicule. With excellent reason, he had always \expndtw-2 taken pride in the badge of his manhood, and to find \expndtw-6 himself surpassed and taunted by boys of eight and nine \expndtw-4 would have hurt him more than blows. Only the girl of four, staring reproachfully at her friends, took no part in \expndtw-3 the game.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 A church bell chimed, eerily, impossibly it seemed to \expndtw0 John in such a place, and a hush enthralled the room. \expndtw2 An aged Mandrake, rather like a tree smothered by \expndtw-5 moss, hobbled among the silenced children and paused between John and Stephen. Examining. Deliberating. \expndtw-4 Choosing. He chose Stephen. When he tried to stoop, \expndtw-3 however, his back creaked like a rusty drawbridge. He \expndtw-6 will break, thought John. He will never reach the ground. \expndtw-4 But he reached the ground and gathered Stephen in his \expndtw-7 mossy arms.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1387\tx5030\cf1\expndtw-6\fs22 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-9 49\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri24\sb202\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Bloody Saracen!" shouted John. "Take your hands \expndtw-1 off my friend!" Stretching prodigiously, he managed to burst the bonds which held his ankles and drive his knee into the Mandrake's groin. The creature gave such a yelp \expndtw1 that red-hot pokers seemed to have gouged John's ears. \expndtw2 He writhed on the ground and raised his hands to shut \expndtw-1 out the shriek and pain. Shadows cobwebbed his brain. \expndtw1 When he struggled back to clarity, Stephen lay in the \expndtw-2 chapel before the crucifix. Looming above him, the aged \expndtw1 Mandrake stood like Abraham above Isaac. The other \expndtw0 adults, perhaps twenty of them, sat on the turtle-shaped stones, while the children sat near the fire to watch the \expndtw2 proceedings from which their elders had barred them. \expndtw-2 The impression John caught of their faces\emdash brief, fleet\-\expndtw2 ing, hazy with smoke and the dim light of the room\emdash  \expndtw-1 was not one of malice or even curiosity, but respect and fear, and the pretty child had turned her back and buried \expndtw3 her face in the arms of an older girl.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li34\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 The officiating Mandrake intoned what seemed to be \expndtw-2 a prayer and a dedication. John caught words resembling \expndtw0 "Father" and "Son" and realized with horror if not sur\-\expndtw4 prise that just as the Christian humans burned a Yule \expndtw-1 log and decked their castles with hawthorn, holly, and mistletoe in honor of Christ, so the Christian Mandrakes were dedicating Stephen to a different conception of the same Christ. First, the offering, then the feast. The same \expndtw0 victim would serve both purposes.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 He had already burst the grapevines which held his \expndtw1 ankles. In spite of his bound hands, he struggled to his \expndtw4 feet and reeled toward the chapel. Once, he had killed \expndtw0 a Mandrake with cold implacability. Now he had turned \expndtw3 to fire: the Greek fire of the East, hurled at ships and \expndtw0 flung from walls; asphalt and crude petroleum, sulphur \expndtw2 and lime, leaping and licking to the incandescence of \expndtw4 Hell. He felt as if stones and Mandrakes must yield \expndtw3 before his advance; as if Mary, the Mother of Christ, \expndtw1 must descend from the castles of heaven or climb from \expndtw-2 the sanctuary of his heart and help him deliver his friend.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 But the Mandrakes rose in a solid palisade; and, \expndtw3 shrunk to a boy of twelve, he hammered his impotent \expndtw0 fists against their wood.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1608\cf1\expndtw-15\fs22 50\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-2\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri58\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "No," he sobbed, falling to his knees. "Me. Not \expndtw2 Stephen."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\i\fs23 "John."\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 His name tolled through the room like the clash of a \expndtw-2 mace against an iron helmet. "John, he will be all right." \expndtw1 Her flaxen hair, coarsened with dirt and leaves, rioted \expndtw2 over her shoulders like tarnished gold coins. She wore \expndtw-1 her linen robe, but the white cloth had lost its purity to stains and tears. She might have been a fallen angel, and \expndtw1 her eyes seemed to smoulder with memories of heaven \expndtw0 or visions of Hell.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 She had entered the room accompanied, not com\-\expndtw0 pelled. She was not their captive. She has gained their \expndtw-2 favor, he thought, by yielding to their lust. But God will forgive her if she saves my friend, and I, John, will serve \expndtw2 her until I die. If she saves my friend\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 He saw that she held her crucifix; gripped it as if you would have to sever the hand before you could pry her \expndtw0 fingers from its gold arms.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 One of her companions called to the priest, who stood \expndtw-3 impassively between his cross of stone and his congrega\-\expndtw-1 tion, and above Stephen. He neither spoke nor gestured, \expndtw0 but disapproval boomed in his silence.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Ruth advanced to the fire and held her crucifix in the \expndtw-2 glow of the flames, which ignited the golden arms to a \expndtw-3 sun-washed sea, milkily glinting with pearls like Saracen \expndtw-1 ships, and the Mandrakes gazed on such a rarity as they had never seen with their poor sunken eyes or fancied in \expndtw1 their dim vegetable brains. In some pathetic, childlike \expndtw-2 way, they must have resembled the men of the First Cru\-\expndtw3 sade who took Jerusalem from the Seljuk Turks and \expndtw2 gazed, for the time, at the Holy Sepulchre; whatever \expndtw-1 ignoble motives had led them to Outre-Mer, they were purged for that one transcendent moment of pride and \expndtw0 avarice and poised between reverence and exaltation. It \expndtw2 was the same with the Mandrakes.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The priest nodded in grudging acquiescence. Ruth \expndtw2 approached him through the ranks of the Mandrakes, \expndtw-3 which parted murmurously like rushes before the advanc\-\expndtw0 ing slippers of the wind, and placed the crucifix in his hands. His fingers stroked the gold with slow, loving \expndtw-2 caresses and paused delicately on the little mounds of the\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1387\tx5035\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-24 51\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri48\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 pearls. She did not wait to receive his dismissal. Without \expndtw1 hesitation and without visible fear, she walked to John and unbound his hands.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Help me with Stephen," she said. "I have traded the \expndtw1 cross for your lives."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Once they had stooped from the shadows of the last \expndtw2 cave and risen to face the late morning sun, the Man\-\expndtw4 drake left them without a look or a gesture, avid, it \expndtw2 seemed, to return to the council chamber and the bar\-\expndtw7 tered crucifix. In the dark corridors, Stephen had \expndtw-2 regained consciousness but leaned on Ruth and John and \expndtw1 allowed them to guide his steps, their own steps guided \expndtw2 by the slow, creaking shuffle of the Mandrake.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Stephen, are you all right?" John asked.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Tired," he gasped, stretching his battered limbs in the grass and closing his eyes.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "And you, Ruth?" John looked at her with awe and \expndtw1 wonderment and not a little fear. He had witnessed a \expndtw-4 miracle.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 She did not look miraculous as she lay beside Stephen. \expndtw0 Once she had seemed to shrink into a spider; now she \expndtw-1 reminded him of a wet linen tunic, flung to the ground, \expndtw2 torn, trampled, forsaken.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "What happened, Ruth?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "They found me by the bank after my swim. I reached \expndtw3 for a stocking and looked up to see\emdash them."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "And\emdash ?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "They laid hands on me. Dragged me toward their \expndtw3 warrens. I fought them, but the one who held me was \expndtw1 very strong."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "And you thought of the crucifix? How they were \expndtw1 Christians and might value it?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Yes. You remember, I had hidden it in our tree. I \expndtw0 tried to make them understand that I would give them a \expndtw-2 treasure if they let me go. You know how they talk. Like \expndtw0 little children just learning to speak. Words and phrases \expndtw-2 all run together. But strange, old-fashioned words. I kept \expndtw4 shouting, 'Treasure, treasure!' But they didn't under\-\expndtw-2 stand. Finally, I remembered an old word used by our \expndtw2 ancestors. 'Folk-hoarding,' I cried, and 'Crucifix!' and \expndtw-1 they understood. They're very devout in their way. They \expndtw2 grinned, argued, waved their snaky arms. Then they let\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1608\cf1\expndtw-15\fs22 52\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri48\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 me go. I led them to the tree. We passed the place where \expndtw8 you and Stephen had fought. I saw bits of your \expndtw-1 breechclouts and knew their friends had captured you. I stopped in my tracks and said I wanted your freedom as \expndtw-2 well as mine. Otherwise, no exchange. One of them said, \expndtw0 'If crucifix ring-bright. If time\emdash '\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "They climbed right after me up the trunk of the tree. \expndtw2 The sight of the crucifix as I unwrapped it made them hold their breath. I held it out to them, but they shook \expndtw0 their heads. No, they wouldn't touch it. It was for their priest. They seemed to feel their own filth and ugliness \expndtw1 might tarnish the gold or lessen the magic. They didn't \expndtw3 grin or look vacant anymore. They looked as if they \expndtw1 wanted to cry. They turned their backs and let me dress \expndtw0 in the robe\emdash and brought me here." "And they kept their promise." "Of course. They're Christians, aren't they?" Her story troubled him. He had heard of many Chris\-\expndtw-1 tians who failed to keep promises; Crusaders, for exam\-ple, with Greeks or Saracens. "But why\emdash " he began, meaning to ask why the Mandrakes would feel bound by \expndtw3 a promise to a hated human girl.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "We can't sit here all day," she interrupted. "They \expndtw-1 might change their minds, Christian or not. Where is the \expndtw3 road?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Shakily they climbed to their feet, Stephen without \expndtw-1 help at his own request ("I must get my balance back."), \expndtw3 and saw the trees which encircled and encaged them, \expndtw-2 great sycamores and greater oaks, looking as if they were \expndtw-1 sentient old kings in an old country, Celt, Roman, and \expndtw-3 Saxon, watchfully standing guard until the usurping Nor\-\expndtw-1 mans had felt the slow fingers of the land shape them to \expndtw5 the lineaments of Britannia, Britain, England, as the \expndtw4 paws and tongue of a bear sculpture her cub into her \expndtw-2 own small likeness.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li53\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "I think," said Stephen, "that the road lies \i that \i0 way." \expndtw6 But Stephen was still befuddled by the blows to his \expndtw2 head. They walked for a long time and did not come to \expndtw5 the road .   . but came to the Manor of Roses.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1392\tx5040\cf1\expndtw-5\fs23 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 53\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri48\sb173\qc\cf1\expndtw14\i\fs23 IV\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri24\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 I watched them as they struggled out of the forest, the stalwart boy supported by his friends, the slighter, dark-\expndtw-2 haired boy and the girl with angel hair. On a sunny morn\-\expndtw2 ing, you see, I leave the Manor with the first twittering \expndtw0 of sparrows and gather the white roses from the hedge \expndtw3 which surrounds my estate, or visit the windmill, the \expndtw-1 first, I believe, in southern England, and watch the mill\-\expndtw1 stones, powered no longer by water, grinding grain for \expndtw-1 the bread of my kitchen. Now, it was afternoon. I had \expndtw0 lunched in the shade of a mulberry tree (apricots, bread, \expndtw1 and mead), returned to the hedge of roses, and seen the \expndtw0 children. I must have gasped at the sight. They stopped and stared at me over the hedge. The girl stiffened and whispered to the boys. It was not a time when children called at strange manor houses. Startled sparrows, they \expndtw-1 seemed. Not in littleness of frailty, you understand. The \expndtw0 girl and the older boy were more than children. It was \expndtw-1 rather their vulnerability. Something had almost broken \expndtw3 them, and they did not know if I were hunter or friend. \expndtw-1 I had to prove my friendliness as if I were coaxing spar\-\expndtw3 rows to eat from my hand.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Follow the hedge to the right," I smiled. "You will see the gate. If you've come from the forest, you must \expndtw0 be tired and hungry. I can give you food and a place to \expndtw3 sleep." I had made a basket of roses out of my arms. I \expndtw-2 had no fear of thorns, with my gloves of antelope leather; \expndtw-1 my long, tight sleeves buttoned at the wrist; my wimple \expndtw0 and cap; and my blue, ankle-length skirt, brocaded with \expndtw-2 star-colored fleurs-de-lis and hanging in folds from my low-belted waist. I watched the boys, clad in breechclouts clumsily fashioned from leaves, and envied them a man's \expndtw6 freedom to dress and ride where he will (unless he \expndtw3 dresses in armor and rides to war).\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The youngest, the dark-haired boy, still supporting his \expndtw0 friend, addressed me with the courteous French of a \expndtw-2 gentleman:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "We are not attired for the company of a lady. You \expndtw0 see, we have come from the forest." His face confirmed \expndtw1 the impression of his speech. It is said that Saladin, \expndtw9 England's noblest enemy, had such a face as a boy:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1613\cf1\expndtw-15\fs22 54\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri43\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 ascetic, scholar, poet. But first and last, I saw his need \expndtw-6 and that of his friend, the Saxon lad with the build of wandering Aengus, the Great Youth, whose kisses were \expndtw-4 called his birds. Even the breechclout seemed an affront \expndtw0 to his body. Still, he needed me. His mouth, though \expndtw-4 forced to a smile, was tight with fatigue and hunger, and \expndtw0 a wound had raked his forehead. Both were spider-\expndtw-5 webbed with scratches.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 The girl, though her white gown was stained and torn, \expndtw-5 resembled an angel sculptured from ivory and set in the tympanum of a London cathedral: beautiful, aloof, \expndtw-3 expressionless. She is tired, I thought. Weariness has \expndtw0 drained her face. Later I will read her heart.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 I met them at the wicket in the hedge, a gate so small \expndtw-1 and low that my son had jumped it in a single bound \expndtw0 when he rode for the Stane and London.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 I held out my arms to greet them; my armful of roses.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li24\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 They kept their ground, the dark boy straining toward \expndtw-2 me, the Saxon drawn between them.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "I can offer you more than flowers," I said, spilling \expndtw-2 the roses.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li29\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 The Norman said, "My Lady, whom have we the \expndtw-3 honor of addressing?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "I am called the Lady Mary. You have come to the \expndtw-2 Manor of Roses."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "I thought," he said, "you might be another Mary. \expndtw-6 Will you help my friend? He has suffered a blow to his \expndtw3 head." But it was the Norman and not his friend I \expndtw-1 helped. He swayed on his feet, leaned to my strength, \expndtw-2 and caught my out-stretched hand.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "I will soil your gown."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "With the good brown earth? It is the purest of all \expndtw-1 substances. The mother of roses."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "But you scattered your flowers on the ground."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "I have others." Supporting him with my arm and fol\-\expndtw-2 lowed by his friends, I drew him toward the house.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Once, a moat had surrounded the Manor, but after my \expndtw-2 husband's death I had filled the water with earth and \expndtw-5 planted mulberry trees, aflutter now with linnets and sil\-very filamented with the webs of silkworms; the trees \expndtw-2 formed a smaller ring within the ring of the rose hedge \expndtw-3 to island but not to isolate my house, which was built of\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1387\tx5035\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 55\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri53\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 bricks instead of the cold grey stones preferred by the \expndtw-6 neighboring barons. My husband had offered to build me \expndtw-3 a manor for my wedding gift.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "Build it of bricks," I had said. "The color of your \expndtw0 hair."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "And stoutly," he said. But the high curtain wall with \expndtw1 its oaken door, its rows of weathered bricks from a \expndtw-5 ruined Roman villa, and its narrow embrasures for bow\-men to fire their arrows, had somehow a look of having \expndtw1 lost its threat, like armor hung on the wall. Gabriel \expndtw-4 knows, I could not stand a siege with my poor, bedrag\-\expndtw-5 gled retainers: gardeners, gatemen, cooks, seneschal, sta\-\expndtw-6 ble-boy\emdash thirty in all, without a knight among them. The \expndtw-3 wasting fever had not been kind to the Manor of Roses.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 The gatekeeper moved to help me with the boy. "He \expndtw-2 will tire you, my Lady."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 I shook my head. No burden can equal the ache of \expndtw-7 emptiness.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Once we had entered the bailey, Sarah the cook, who \expndtw-5 had slipped out of the kitchen and thrown back her hood \expndtw-4 to catch some sun, tossed up her ponderous hands\emdash I \expndtw1 suspect it required some effort\emdash and squealed, "My \expndtw-2 Lady, what have you found?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "Children, what else? Sarah, hurry to the kitchen and \expndtw-5 prepare a meal such as young boys\emdash young men\emdash like. \expndtw-4 Pheasant and\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "I know, I know," she said. "You forget I've sons of \expndtw-3 my own, who serve you every night!" Sarah, her three \expndtw-4 sons and her two daughters, were new to the Manor, but \expndtw-2 she acted as if she had been my nurse since childhood. "I know what young boys like. The beast of the chase \expndtw1 and the fowl of the warren. All that flies and all that \expndtw-3 goes on hooves, and two of everything unless it's as big as a boar!" She waddled ahead of us up the stairs to the \expndtw-4 door and, laboriously genuflecting, vanished under the \expndtw-6 lintel with its wooden Madonna cradling the Holy Infant.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li53\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "It's a lovely house," said the Saxon boy in English. \expndtw0 "It looks like an abbot's grange."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "A very rich abbot," explained the Norman, fearful \expndtw-4 no doubt that I had misunderstood his friend's compli\-\expndtw-2 ment, since poor abbots lived in squalid cottages.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "I meant," stammered the Saxon, "it looks so bright\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1613\cf1\expndtw-10\fs25 56\expndtw0\tab\expndtw1\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri34\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 and peaceful, with its Mother and Child, and its\emdash " He \expndtw-2 waited for his friend to complete his sentence.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "Its two pointed roofs instead of battlements, and real \expndtw-5 windows instead of slits for archers, with \i glass \i0 in the \expndtw-4 windows! And Stephen, see the herb garden. Parsley, \expndtw-2 thyme, bay leaf, marjoram, mace, tarragon\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "You know a lot about herbs," I said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 "I've read an herbal."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Once in the Manor, I took them to the bath. In all the \expndtw-1 Weald, I think, in all of England, no other house can \expndtw-5 claim a fountain for bathing enclosed under the roof. The mouth of a dolphin, hammered from bronze by the arti\-sans of Constantinople, spewed a vigorous streamlet into \expndtw-6 a basin where Tritons gamboled on vari-colored tiles. For \expndtw-5 baths in the cold of winter, I stuffed the dolphin's mouth \expndtw-1 and filled the basin with kettles hot from the kitchen.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "Your friend shall bathe first," I said to the boys. All \expndtw-1 of us now were speaking English. And to her: "Your \expndtw-5 name is\emdash ?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li24\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 When the girl was slow to answer, the Saxon said: \expndtw0 "Ruth. She is our guardian angel. She rescued us."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "From wild beasts?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "From Mandrakes."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 I shuddered. "They are much in the woods, poor mis\-\expndtw0 shapen brutes. They have never harmed me, though. \expndtw-2 You must tell me later about your escape. Now then, \expndtw1 Ruth. You shall have the bath to yourself. After you \expndtw-1 have bathed, I shall send you clothes, and a perfume \expndtw1 made from musk, and. . ."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 She looked at me with cool, veiled eyes. "You are \expndtw-5 very kind." I wanted to say to her: I am more than twice your age, and far less beautiful. Trust me, my dear. Trust \expndtw-14 me!\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 I turned to the boys. The Norman, I learned, was \expndtw-3 John; the Saxon, Stephen. "When Ruth has finished, it \expndtw-1 will be your turn."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "Thank you, my lady," said John. "We would like to \expndtw-1 bathe with a dolphin. But\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "You would rather eat! What about bread and cheese and pennyroyal tea to hold you till time for supper? Or," \expndtw-5 I added quickly, "beer instead of tea." Pennyroyal! I had \expndtw-3 been too much with women.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1382\tx5030\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 57\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri53\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "Beer," they said in one breath. "But," said John, \expndtw4 "my brother has a wound."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Brother?" I asked, surprised. A Norman gentleman \expndtw1 and a Saxon peasant!\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "We adopted each other. Have you something for his \expndtw3 head?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "For my stomach," grinned Stephen. "That's where I \expndtw5 hurt the most."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "For both," I said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li10\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The hall of my manor house is hot and damp in the \expndtw1 summer, and cold in the winter even with pine logs, as \expndtw2 big around as a keg of beer, crackling on the hearth. It \expndtw0 has always been a room for men: shouting, roistering, \expndtw-2 warming themselves with mead. For myself, I prefer the \expndtw1 solar, the room of many purposes in which I sleep and \expndtw0 dine and weave, and entertain the friends who come \expndtw-1 infrequently now to visit me. I left the boys in the solar \expndtw3 with three loaves of bread, two enormous cheeses, and \expndtw0 a flagon of beer, and told them to eat and afterwards to \expndtw4 bathe themselves with cloths dipped in camphor and \expndtw1 wrap fresh linen around their waists.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Call me after you've finished."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 I had scarcely had time to find a gown for Ruth when \expndtw3 I heard John's voice: "Lady Mary, we've finished."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 I found them so fragrant with camphor that I over\-\expndtw3 looked the patches of dirt they had left on their knees and elbows. The bread, cheese, and beer had vanished \expndtw-1 as if there had been a raid by kitchen elves, denied their \expndtw-2 nightly tribute of crumbs. I tended the boys' wounds with a paste of fennel and dittany and they yielded themselves \expndtw0 to my fingers without embarrassment, sons to a mother, \expndtw-2 and made me feel as if my hands had rediscovered their \expndtw-1 purpose.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "It doesn't burn at all," said Stephen. "My father used \expndtw-1 a poultice of adder's flesh pounded with wood-lice and \expndtw4 spiders. But it burned like the devil, and stank."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Lady Mary's hands are like silk," said John. "That's \expndtw5 why it doesn't bum."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The boys began to dress in tunics which had belonged \expndtw5 to my son: John in green, with a fawn-colored cape \expndtw-2 drawn through a ring-brooch and knotted at his shoulder, \expndtw2 and \i chausses \i0 or stockings to match the cape, and black\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1618\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 58\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri38\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 leather shoes with straps; Stephen in blue, with a pale \expndtw-3 rose cape and silver \i chausses, \i0 but looking with each addi\-\expndtw2 tional garment as if another chain had shackled him to \expndtw-1 the wall.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I wouldn't show myself in the forest like this," he \expndtw8 muttered. "I'd be taken for a pheasant and shot on \expndtw1 sight."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "It's only for tonight," I said. "Don't you want to look \expndtw4 the gallant for Ruth?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "She's used to me naked. She'll take me for a jester."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "My lady."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Ruth had entered the room. She was dressed in a crim\-\expndtw-2 son gown or \i cotte, \i0 caught at the waist by a belt of gilded \expndtw1 doeskin but falling around her feet in billows through \expndtw0 which the toes of her slippers peeped like small green \expndtw-1 lizards. She had bound her hair in a moss-green net, and her yellow tresses twinkled like caged fireflies. (Strange, \expndtw-2 I always thought of her in terms of forest creatures: wild, \expndtw1 unknowable, untamable.)\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "My lady, the boys may have their bath. I thank you for sending me so lovely a gown."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "We've had our bath," said Stephen with indignation. \expndtw3 "Can't you see we're dressed as gallants?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Lady Mary put fennel and dittany on our wounds," \expndtw5 said John, "and now they don't hurt any more."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "And we're going to eat," said Stephen.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Again," said John.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Ruth examined the solar and almost relaxed from her \expndtw-2 self-containment. "Why, it's lovely," she said, extending \expndtw1 her arm to include the whole of the room. "It's all made of sunlight."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Not entirely," I smiled, pointing to the high, raftered \expndtw-3 ceiling with its tie-beam and king-post. "Cobwebs collect \expndtw1 unless I keep after Sarah's sons. They have to bring a ladder, you see, and they don't like dusting among the \expndtw2 dark crevices. They're afraid of elves."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li53\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "But the rest," Ruth said. "There's no darkness \expndtw0 anywhere."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The room was kindled with afternoon light from the windows: the fireplace, heaped with logs; a tall-backed \expndtw0 chair with square sides and embroidered cushions or \expndtw4 bankers; a huge recessed window shaped like an arch\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1397\tx5040\cf1\expndtw1\fs22 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-14 59\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri43\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 and filled with roseate panes of glass from Constantino\-\expndtw-1 ple; and, hiding the wooden timbers of the floor, a Sara\-\expndtw0 cen carpet of polygons, red, yellow, and white, with a \expndtw-3 border of stylized Persian letters. My wainscotted walls, \expndtw7 however, were purely English, their oaken panels \expndtw0 painted the green of leaves and bordered with roses to \expndtw2 match the carpet.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Ruth explored the room with the air of a girl familiar \expndtw0 with beauty, its shapes and its colors, but not without \expndtw1 wonder. She touched my loom with loving recognition \expndtw0 and paused at my canopied bed to exclaim: "It's like a \expndtw-1 silken tent!\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li5\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "But the linnets," she said, pointing to the wicker cage \expndtw-1 which hung beside the bed. "Don't they miss the forest?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li10\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "They are quite content. I feed them sunflower seeds \expndtw-1 and protect them from stoats and weasels. In return, they \expndtw3 sing for me."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Is it true that a caged linnet changes his song?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Yes. His voice softens."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "That's what I mean. The wildness goes."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Shouldn't it, my dear?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "I don't know, Lady Mary."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 We sat on benches drawn to a wooden table with tres\-tles, John and I across from Ruth and Stephen. My hus\-band and I had been served in the great hall by nimble, soft-toed squires who received the dishes from kitchen menials. After his death, however, I began to dine in the \expndtw3 solar instead of the hall. For the last year I had been \expndtw-1 served by Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, the three illegitimate sons of my cook, Sarah. As a rule, I liked to \expndtw-3 dine without ceremony, chatting with the sons\emdash identical \expndtw0 triplets with fiery red hair on their heads and arms, and thus their name: they seemed to have stepped out of a \expndtw1 furnace. But tonight, for the sake of my guests, I had \expndtw-1 ordered Sarah and her two illegitimate daughters, Rahab \expndtw3 and Magdalena, to prepare, and her sons to serve, a \expndtw0 banquet instead of a supper. The daughters had laid the \expndtw-1 table with a rich brocade of Saracen knights astride their \expndtw6 swift little ponies, and they had placed among the \expndtw4 knights, as if it were under seige, a molded castle of \expndtw1 sugar, rice-flour, and almond-paste.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw8\fs23 After I had said the grace, the sons appeared with\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1618\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 60\expndtw0\tab\expndtw3\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri43\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 lavers, ewers, and napkins and passed them among my \expndtw0 guests. Stephen lifted a laver to his mouth and started to \expndtw1 drink, but John whispered frantically:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "It isn't soup, it's to wash your hands."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "There'll be other things to drink," I promised.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "I haven't felt this clean since I was baptized!" Ste\-\expndtw-1 phen laughed, splattering the table with water from his \expndtw-4 laver.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Both Ruth and John, though neither had eaten from \expndtw-3 dishes of beaten silver, were fully at ease with knives and \expndtw-1 spoons; they cut the pheasant and duck before they used \expndtw-3 their fingers and scooped the fish-and-crab-apple pie with \expndtw-1 the spoons. But Stephen watched his friends with wry \expndtw-3 perplexity.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "I never used a knife except to hunt or fish," he \expndtw2 sighed. "I'll probably cut off a finger. Then you can see \expndtw4 if I'm a Mandrake!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "We'd know that already," said John. "You'd look \expndtw-2 like a hedgehog and somebody would have chopped you \expndtw0 up a long time ago for aphrodisiacs. You'd have brought \expndtw5 a fortune." His gruesome remarks, I gathered, were \expndtw1 meant to divert me from the fact that he had furtively \expndtw-1 dropped his knife, seized a pheasant, and wrestled off a wing. His motive was as obvious as it was generous. He did not wish to shame his friend by his own polished \expndtw-2 manners.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 I laughed heartily for the first time since the death of \expndtw0 my son. "Knives were always a nuisance. Spoons too. \expndtw1 What are fingers for if not to eat with? So long as you don't bite yourself!" I wrenched a drumstick and thigh from the parent bird and felt the grease, warm and \expndtw-1 mouthwatering, ooze between my fingers. "Here," I said \expndtw0 to Stephen. "Take hold of the thigh and we'll divide the piece." The bone parted, the meat split into decidedly \expndtw1 unequal portions. Half of my drumstick accompanied John's thigh.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "It means you're destined for love," I said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "He's already had it," said John. "Hay-lofts full of it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "She doesn't mean that kind," said Stephen, suddenly \expndtw-1 serious. "She means caring\emdash taking care of\emdash don't you, \expndtw0 Lady Mary? I've had that too, of course." He looked at \expndtw1 John.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1387\tx5026\cf1\expndtw-10\fs24 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-22 61\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\sb202\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "Then it means you'll always have it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "I know," he said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 John smiled at Stephen and then at me, happy because \expndtw0 the three of us were friends, but silent Ruth continued \expndtw-4 to cut her meat into snail-sized portions and lift them to her mouth with the fastidiousness of a nun (her fingers, \expndtw-2 however, made frequent trips).\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego scurried between \expndtw-5 the solar and the kitchen, removing and replenishing, but \expndtw-6 it looked as if John and Stephen would never satisfy their \expndtw-2 hunger. With discreet if considerable assistance from \expndtw-5 Ruth, they downed three pheasants, two ducks, two fish-\expndtw-3 and-crab-apple pies, and four tumblers of mead.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "Leave some for us," hissed Shadrach in Stephen's \expndtw-1 ear. "This is the \i last \i0 bird." Stephen looked surprised, \expndtw-5 then penitent, and announced himself as full as a tick on \expndtw-1 the ear of a hound. Shadrach hurried the last bird back to the kitchen.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 After the feast the boys told me about their adven\-\expndtw-1 tures, encouraging rather than interrupting each other \expndtw-4 with such comments as, "You tell her about the stream \expndtw-2 with the pepperwort, John," or "Stephen you're better about the fighting." John talked more because he was more at ease with words; Stephen gestured as much as \expndtw-5 he talked and sometimes asked John to finish a sentence for him; and Ruth said nothing until the end of the story, when she recounted, quietly, without once meeting my \expndtw-4 gaze, the episode of her capture and bargain with the \expndtw-1 Mandrakes. I studied her while she spoke. Shy? Aloof, \expndtw-6 I would say. Mistrustful. Of me, at least. Simple jealousy \expndtw-4 was not the explanation. I was hardly a rival for the kind \expndtw-5 of love she seemed to want from Stephen. No, it was not \expndtw-3 my beauty which troubled her, but the wisdom which \expndtw-5 youth supposes to come with age; in a word, my mature \expndtw-3 perceptions. There was something about her which she \expndtw-4 did not wish perceived.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs24 "And now for the gifts," I said.\cf0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "Gifts?" cried John.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "Yes. The dessert of a feast is the gifts and not the \expndtw-2 pies."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "But we have nothing to give you."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "You have told me a wondrous and frightening story.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1618\cf1\expndtw-13\fs22 62\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri48\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 No jongleur could have kept me more enthralled. And \expndtw-5 for you, I have\emdash " I clapped my hands and Shadrach, \expndtw-6 Meshach, and Abednego appeared with my gifts, some \expndtw-7 musical instruments which had once belonged to my son. \expndtw-1 For Ruth, a rebec, a pear-shaped instrument from the \expndtw-6 East, three-stringed and played with a bow; for the boys, twin nakers or kettledrums which Stephen strapped to his \expndtw-5 back and John began to pound with soft-headed wooden \expndtw-7 drumsticks.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Ruth hesitated with her rebec till Stephen turned and \expndtw-1 said, "Play for us, Ruth! What are you waiting for, a \expndtw0 harp?"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Then Ruth joined them, the boys marching round and round the solar, Stephen first, John behind him pounding \expndtw-4 on the drums and thumping the carpet with his feet, and \expndtw-5 finally Ruth, playing with evident skill and forgetting to look remote and enigmatic. Shadrach, Meshach, and \expndtw-6 Abednego had lingered in the doorway, and behind them Sarah appeared with her plump, swarthy daughters. I was \expndtw-4 not surprised when they started to sing; I was only sur\-prised to find myself joining them in the latest popular \expndtw-10 song:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\ri1843\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\i\fs23 Summer is a-comin' in, Loud sing cuckoo. \expndtw-3 Groweth seed and bloweth mead, \expndtw1 And springs the wood anew. Sing, cuckoo!\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\ri10\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs24 In an hour the three musicians, their audience \expndtw2 departed to the kitchen, had exhausted the energies \expndtw1 which the meal had revived. Ruth sank in the chair \expndtw-4 beside the hearth. The boys, thanking me profusely for \expndtw1 their gifts, climbed into the window seats. Stephen \expndtw-5 yawned and began to nod his head. John, in the opposite \expndtw-2 seat, gave him a warning kick,\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs24 "Come," I said to them, "there's a tittle room over \expndtw0 the kitchen which used to belong to my son. The hall was too big, the solar too warm, he felt. I'll show you his room while Ruth prepares for bed. Ruth, we'll fix \expndtw-3 you a place in the window. You see how the boys are \expndtw3 sitting opposite each other. I've only to join the seats\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1392\tx5030\cf1\expndtw1\fs21 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-4 63\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri38\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 with a wooden stool and add a few cushions to make a couch. Or"\emdash and I made the offer, I fear, with visible \expndtw-2 reluctance\emdash "you may share my own bed under the \expndtw-4 canopy."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "The window seats will be fine."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 I pointed to the Aumbry, a wooden cupboard aswirl with wrought-iron scroll work, almost like the illumi\-\expndtw3 nated page of a psalter. "There's no lock. Open the \expndtw-3 doors and find yourself a night-dress while I show the \expndtw-1 boys their room."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 My son's room was as small as a chapel in a keep, with \expndtw-3 one little square of a window, but the bed was wide as \expndtw-2 well as canopied, and irresistible to the tired boys.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs24 "It's just like yours!" John cried.\cf0\fs20\par
\cf1\fs24 "Smaller. But just as soft."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "At home I slept on a bench against the wall, in a \expndtw-5 room with eight other boys\emdash sons of my father's knights. \expndtw3 I got the wall bench because my father owned the \expndtw-2 castle."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "I slept on straw," said Stephen, touching the mat\-\expndtw-4 tress, sitting, stretching himself at length, and uttering a \expndtw-2 huge, grateful sigh. "It's like a nest of puppies. What \expndtw-1 makes it so soft?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "Goose-feathers."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 "The geese we ate tonight\emdash\i their \i0 feathers will stuff a \expndtw-1 mattress, won't they?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "Two, I suspect." I fetched them a silk-covered bear\-\expndtw-5 skin from a small, crooked cupboard which my son had \expndtw1 built at the age of thirteen. "And now I must see to Ruth."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 I am not a reticent person, but the sight of the boys\emdash  Stephen in bed and sleepily smiling goodnight, John \expndtw-3 respectfully standing but sneaking an envious glance at \expndtw-4 his less respectful friend\emdash wrenched me almost to tears. \expndtw-5 I did not trust myself to say that I was very glad to offer \expndtw-1 them my son's bed for as long as they chose to stay in \expndtw-2 the Manor of Roses.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 I could only say: "Sleep as late as you like. Sarah can \expndtw-1 fix you breakfast at any hour."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "You're very kind," said Stephen. "But tomorrow, I \expndtw0 think, we must get an early start for London."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "London!" I cried. "But your wounds haven't healed!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1618\cf1\expndtw-11\fs24 64\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri62\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 "They were just scratches really, and now you've cured them with your medicine. If we stayed, we might \i never \expndtw1\i0 want to go."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs24 "I might never want you to go."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "But don't you see, Lady Mary, we have to fight for \expndtw-3 Jerusalem."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 "You expect to succeed where kings have failed? Fred\-\expndtw-5 erick Barbarossa? Richard-the-Lion-Hearted? Two little \expndtw-2 boys without a weapon between them!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "We're not little boys," he protested. "I'm a young \expndtw-11 swain\emdash\i -fifteen winters old\emdash\i0 and John here is a\emdash stripling \expndtw-1 who will grow like a bindweed. Aren't you, John?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "Grow, anyway," said John without enthusiasm. "But \expndtw0 I don't see why we have to leave in the morning."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs24 "Because of Ruth."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "And Ruth is your guardian angel?" I asked with an \expndtw-1 irony lost on the boy.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "Yes. Already she's saved our lives."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "Has she, Stephen? Has she? Sleep now. We'll talk \expndtw0 tomorrow. I want to tell you about my own son."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 I returned to the solar heavy of foot. It was well for \expndtw-4 Ruth that she had changed to a nightdress, joined the \expndtw-5 window seats with the necessary stool, and retired to bed \expndtw-6 in a tumble of cushions. Now she was feigning sleep but \expndtw-4 forgetting to mimic the slow, deep breams of the true \expndtw-3 sleeper. Well, I could question her tomorrow. One thing \expndtw-5 I knew. She would lead my boys on no unholy Crusade.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 A chill in the air awakened me. It was not unusual for \expndtw-4 a hot summer day to grow wintry at night. I rose, lit a \expndtw-3 candle, and found additional coverlets for myself and \expndtw-5 Ruth. Her face seemed afloat in her golden hair; decapi\-\expndtw-2 tated, somehow; or drowned.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 I thought of the boys, shivering in the draft of their \expndtw-6 glassless window. I had not remembered to draw the can\-\expndtw-5 opy of their bed. In my linen nightdress and my pointed \expndtw-4 satin slippers which, like all the footwear expected of \expndtw-7 English ladies, cruelly pinched my toes, I passed through \expndtw-2 the hall and then the kitchen, tiptoed among the pallets \expndtw-4 of Sarah and her children stretched near the oven, and climbed a staircase whose steepness resembled a ladder.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li72\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Lifting aside a coarse leather curtain, I stood in the \expndtw-4 doorway of my son's room and looked at the boys. They\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1392\tx5035\cf1\expndtw-5\fs23 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 65\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri53\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 had fallen asleep without extinguishing the pewter lamp which hung from a rod beside their bed. The bearskin covered their chins, and their bodies had met for warmth in the middle of the bed. I leaned above them and started \expndtw4 to spread my coverlet. John, who was closer to me, \expndtw1 opened his eyes and smiled.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Mother," he said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Mary," I said, sitting on the edge of the bed.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "That's what I meant."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "I'm sorry I woke you."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "I'm glad. You came to bring us a coverlet, didn't \expndtw0 you?"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Yes. Won't we wake your brother?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 His smile broadened; he liked my acceptance of Ste\-\expndtw3 phen as his brother and equal. "Not our voices. Only if \expndtw-1 I got out of bed. Then he would feel me gone. But once \expndtw3 he's asleep, he never hears anything, unless it's one of \expndtw2 his hounds."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "You're really going tomorrow?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "I don't want to go. I don't think Stephen does either. \expndtw-1 It's Ruth's idea. She whispered to him in the solar, when \expndtw3 you and I were talking. But I heard her just the same. \expndtw1 She said they must get to London. She said it was why she had come, and why she had saved us from the Mandrakes."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Why won't she trust me, John?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I think she's afraid of you. Of what you might guess."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "What is there to guess?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li43\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 There was fear in his eyes. He looked at Stephen, \expndtw5 asleep, and then at me. "I think that Ruth is a Man\-\expndtw4 drake. One who has passed."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 I flinched. I had thought: thief, adventuress, harlot, \expndtw3 carrier of the plague, but nothing so terrible as Man\-\expndtw2 drake. Though fear was a brand in my chest, I spoke \expndtw4 quietly. I did not want to judge her until he had made \expndtw-1 his case. He might be a too imaginative child, frightened \expndtw4 by the forest and now bewildered with sleep. He was \expndtw7 only twelve. And yet, from what I had seen, I had \expndtw2 thought him singularly rational for his years. Stephen, \expndtw-2 one might have said, would wake in the night and babble \expndtw1 of Mandrake girls. Never John. Not without reason, at \expndtw-3 least.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1613\cf1\expndtw-10\fs21 66\expndtw0\tab\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Why do you think that, John?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 His words cascaded like farthings from a purse cut by \expndtw2 a pickpocket: swift, confused at times, and yet a thread \expndtw-3 of logic which made me share his suspicions. Ruth's mys\-\expndtw-2 terious arrival in the Mithraeum. Her vague answers and \expndtw2 her claim to forgetfulness. Her lore of the forest. Her \expndtw3 shock and disgust when he and Stephen had told her \expndtw-1 about the Mandrake hunters. Her strangely successful \expndtw0 bargain with the crucifix.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li10\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "And they kept their word," he said. "Even when they \expndtw1 thought Stephen and I had killed one of their babies. It \expndtw4 was as if they let us go so that she could \i use \i0 us."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "It's true they're Christians," I said. "I've found their \expndtw5 stone crosses in the woods around my Manor. They \expndtw1 might have felt bound by their word. An oath to a sav\-\expndtw-2 age, especially a Christian savage, can be a sacred thing. \expndtw4 Far more sacred than to some of our own Crusaders, \expndtw-1 who have sacked the towns of their sworn friends. Ruth \expndtw3 may have told you the truth about the crucifix."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "I know," he said. "I know. It's wicked of me to sus\-\expndtw-1 pect her. She's always been kind to me. She brought me \expndtw1 strawberries in the forest once! And Stephen worships \expndtw6 her. But I had to tell you, didn't I? She might have \expndtw-4 passed when she was a small child. Grown up in a village. \expndtw-1 But someone became suspicious. She fled to the forest. \expndtw4 Took shelter in the Mithraeum where Stephen and I found her. You see, if I'm right\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "We're all in danger. You and Stephen most of all. \expndtw-1 You have been exposed to her visitations. We shall have \expndtw4 to learn the truth before you leave this house."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "You mean we must wound her? But if she passed a \expndtw4 long time ago, we would have to cut to the bone."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "We wouldn't so much as scratch her. We would sim\-\expndtw-2 ply confront her with an accusation. Suppose she is a \expndtw1 Mandrake. Either she knew already when she first met \expndtw4 you or else her people told her in the forest. Told her \expndtw-1 with pride: 'See, we have let you grow soft and beautiful \expndtw-2 in the town.' Tomorrow we shall demand proof of her \expndtw0 innocence. Innocent, she will offer herself to the knife. The offer alone will suffice. But a true Mandrake will \expndtw4 surely refuse such a test, and then we will know her \expndtw0 guilt."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1392\tx5050\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-21 67\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\ri43\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "It's rather like trial by combat, isn't it?" he said at \expndtw1 last. "God condemns the guilty. Pricks him with con\-\expndtw-1 science until he loses the fight. But this way, there won't be a combat, just a trial. God will make Ruth reveal her \expndtw2 guilt or innocence."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "And you and I will be His instruments. Nothing \expndtw4 more."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "And if she's guilty?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "We'll send her into the forest and let her rejoin her \expndtw3 people."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "It will break Stephen's heart."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "It will save his life. Save him from Ruth\emdash and from \expndtw1 going to London. Without his angel, do you think he'll \expndtw-2 still persist in his foolish crusade? He will stay here with you and me. The Manor of Roses has need of two fine \expndtw1 youths."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "You won't make him a servant because he's a villein? \expndtw-1 His ancestors were Saxon earls when mine were pirates."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Mine were pirates too. Blood-thirsty ones, at that. \expndtw-2 No, you and Stephen shall both be my sons. You adopted \expndtw10 him. Why shouldn't I?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "You know," he said, "when you first spoke to us at \expndtw-3 the hedge\emdash after we had come from the forest\emdash you said \expndtw0 we'd come to the Manor of Roses. At first I thought you \expndtw3 meant the \i manner \i0 of roses. Without the capitals."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Did you, John?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Yes. And it's quite true. Of the house, I mean, and \expndtw4 you. The manner of roses."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "But I have thorns to protect the ones I love. Ruth \expndtw-3 will feel them tomorrow." I knelt beside him and touched \expndtw1 my lips to his cheek. It was not as if I were kissing him for the first time, but had kissed him every night for\emdash  \expndtw-2 how many years?\emdash the years of my son when he rode to \expndtw-1 London.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "You're crying," he said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "It's the smoke from the lamp. It has stung my eyes."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 He clung to my neck, no longer a boy; a small child I \expndtw2 could almost feed at my breast.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "I like your hair when it's loose," he said. "It's like a \expndtw3 halo that comes all the way to your shoulders."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 He fell asleep in my arms.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri29\qc\cf1\expndtw1\i\fs21 Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri29\sb667\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 I woke to the strident twittering of sparrows. Their little shapes flickered against the window panes, and for once \expndtw3 I regretted the glass. I would have liked them to flood \expndtw0 the room with their unmelodious chirpings and share in \expndtw-3 my four-walled, raftered safety. Minikin beings, they rev\-\expndtw-1 eled in the sun, noisily, valiantly, yet prey to eagle and \expndtw4 hawk from the wilderness of sky, and the more they \expndtw3 piped defiance, the more they invited death.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 But other sparrows were not beyond my help.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 I rose and dressed without assistance. I did not call \expndtw-2 Sarah's daughters to comb my hair and exclaim, "But it's \expndtw5 like black samite!" and fasten the sleeves above my \expndtw2 wrists and burden my fingers with jade and tourmaline. \expndtw11 I did not wish to awaken Ruth. I dreaded the \expndtw-1 confrontation.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Encased from the tip of my toes to the crest of my \expndtw-3 hair, amber and green in wimple, robe, gloves, stockings, \expndtw2 and slippers, I walked into the courtyard and sat on a \expndtw-2 bench among my herbs, lulled by the soft scent of laven\-\expndtw-1 der, but not from my hesitations; piqued by the sharp \expndtw4 pungency of tarragon, but not to pride in what I must \expndtw3 ask of Ruth.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The sun was as high as a bell-tower before the sounds \expndtw0 from the solar told me that the children had waked and \expndtw1 met. Ruth and Stephen were belaboring John when I \expndtw3 entered the room. Stephen looked liberated in his \expndtw-2 breechclout, and Ruth disported herself in his blue tunic, \expndtw-1 the one he had worn reluctantly to my feast, but without the \i chausses \i0 or the cape. They were telling John that he \expndtw1 ought to follow their example and dress for the woods.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "You're white as a sheep this morning," chided Ste\-\expndtw4 phen. "Your shoulders need the sun."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 John, engulfed by his cape and tunic, might have been \expndtw2 ten instead of twelve. I pitied the child. He would have \expndtw-3 to side with me against his friends. He returned my smile \expndtw2 with a slight nod of his head, as if to say, "It must be now."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 Stephen's voice was husky with gratitude: "Lady Mary, we must leave you and make our way to London. You've \expndtw3 fed us and given us a roof, and we won't forget you. In\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1392\tx5045\cf1\expndtw2\fs22 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-12 69\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri38\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 a dark forest, you have been our candle. Your gifts\emdash the \expndtw-5 drums and rebec\emdash will help us to earn our passage to the \expndtw-1 Holy Land."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "Knights and abbots will throw you pennies," I said. "Robbers will steal them. It will take you a long time to \expndtw-2 earn your passage."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "But that's why we have to go! To start earning. And \expndtw-6 when we come back this way, we'll bring you a Saracen \expndtw-3 shield to hang above your hearth." He kissed my hand \expndtw-5 with a rough, impulsive tenderness. An aura of camphor wreathed him from yesterday's bath. He had combed his \expndtw-3 hair in a fringe across his forehead, like jonquils above \expndtw-4 his bluer-than-larkspur eyes. I thought how the work of the\expndtw-5  comb would soon be spoiled; the petals wilted by the \expndtw-4 great forest, tangled with cobwebs, matted perhaps with \expndtw-6 blood.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs24 "I think you should know the nature of your \expndtw-4 company."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 His eyes widened into a question. The innocence of th\expndtw1 em almost shook my resolve. "John? But he's my \expndtw-4 friend! If you mean he's very young, you ought to have \expndtw-1 seen him fight the Mandrakes."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs24 "Ruth."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "Ruth is an angel." He made the statement as one \expndtw0 might say, "I believe in God."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "You want her to be an angel. But is she, Stephen? \expndtw2 Ask her."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 He turned to Ruth for confirmation. "You said you \expndtw0 came from the sky, didn't you?"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "I said I didn't remember." She stared at the Persian \expndtw-3 carpet and seemed to be counting the polygons or read\-\expndtw-1 ing the cryptic letters woven into the border.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li24\ri5\sb5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs24 "But you said you remembered falling a great \expndtw-2 distance."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "There are other places to fall than out of the sky."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 John spoke at last. "But you remembered things." His \expndtw-6 voice seemed disembodied. It might have come from the \expndtw-4 vault of a deep Mithraeum. "About the forest. Where to \expndtw-6 find wild strawberries. How to weave a cup out of rushes. \expndtw-1 How to escape from the Mandrakes."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi226\li24\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "Ruth," I said. "Tell them who you are. Tell me. We \expndtw0 want to know."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1618\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 70\expndtw0\tab\i Thomas Burnett\b  \b0 Swann\cf0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri58\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 She began to tremble. "I don't know. I don't know." \expndtw0 I was ready to pity her when she told the truth.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 I walked to the Aumbry with slow, deliberate steps. \expndtw-3 In spite of my silken slippers, I placed each foot as if I \expndtw2 were crushing a mite which threatened my roses. I \expndtw-4 opened the doors, knelt, and reached to the lowest shelf \expndtw-6 for a Saracen poniard, its ivory hilt emblazoned with sap\-\expndtw-4 phires in the shape of a running gazelle. The damascene \expndtw-3 blade was very sharp: steel inlaid with threads of silver.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 There was steel in my voice as I said, "You are not to \expndtw-3 leave my house till I know who you are. I accepted you \expndtw-4 as a guest and friend. Now I have reason to believe that \expndtw1 you are dangerous. To the boys, if not to me."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "You would harm me, Lady Mary?" She shrank from the light of the window and joined the shadows near the \expndtw-3 hearth. I half expected her to dwindle into a spider and \expndtw-1 scuttle to safety among the dark rafters.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "I would ask you to undergo a test."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 She said: "You think I am a Mandrake."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "I think you must show us that you are not a Man\-\expndtw-4 drake." I walked toward her with the poniard. "My hus\-\expndtw-5 band killed the Saracen who owned this blade. Wrestled \expndtw-3 him for it. Drove it into his heart. You see, the point is \expndtw-1 familiar with blood. It will know what to do."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "Lady Mary!" It was Stephen who stepped between \expndtw-4 us; charged, I should say, like an angry stag, and almost took the blade in his chest. "What are you saying, Lady \expndtw-5 Mary?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "Ask her," I cried. "Ask her! Why does she fear the \expndtw-2 knife? Because it will prove her guilt!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 He struck my hand and the poniard fell to the floor. \expndtw-3 He gripped my shoulders.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "Witch! You have blasphemed an angel!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Anger had drained me; indignation; doubts. I dropped in\expndtw-2  his punishing hands. I wanted to sleep.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 John awoke from his torpor and beat on his friend \expndtw-3 with desperate fists. "It's true, it's true! You must let her \expndtw-6 go!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 Stephen unleashed a kick like a javelin hurled from an \expndtw-3 arblast. I forgot the poniard; forgot to watch the girl. All \expndtw3 I could see was John as he struck the doors of the \expndtw2 Aumbry and sank, winded and groaning to the floor.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1392\tx5045\cf1\expndtw-10\fs24 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-24 71\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri29\sb202\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Twisting from Stephen's fingers, I knelt to the wounded \expndtw-1 boy and took him in my arms.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw10\fs24 "I'm not hurt," he gasped. "But Ruth \expndtw57 ...\expndtw10  the \expndtw7 poniard \expndtw29 ..."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 I saw the flash of light on the blade in Ruth's hand. \expndtw-1 Stephen swayed on his feet, a stag no longer: a bear \expndtw-6 chained in a pit, baited by some, fed by others\emdash how can \expndtw-5 he tell his tormentors from his friends? Wildly he stared \expndtw-4 from the boy he had hurt to the girl he had championed. Ruth walked toward me with soundless feet and eyes as \expndtw-5 cold as hornstones under a stream. She might have been \expndtw-6 dead.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 The poniard flashed between us. I threw up my hands \expndtw-5 for defense: of myself and John. She brought the blade \expndtw-2 down sharply against her own hand, the mount of the \expndtw-4 palm below her thumb. I heard\emdash I actually heard\emdash the \expndtw-3 splitting of flesh, the rasp of metal on bone. The blade must have cut through half of her hand before it lodged \expndtw-4 in the bone, and then she withdrew it without a cry, with \expndtw-2 a sharp, quick jerk, like a fisherman removing a hook, \expndtw-5 and stretched her fingers to display her wound. The flesh \expndtw-2 parted to reveal white bone, and crimson blood, not in \expndtw-3 the least resinous, swelled to fill the part. She smiled at me with triumph but without malice, a young girl who \expndtw-6 had vindicated herself before an accuser more than twice \expndtw-3 her years.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "Did you think I mean to hurt you?" she said almost playfully and then, seeing her blood as it reddened the \expndtw-1 carpet, winced and dropped the poniard.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Stephen steadied her into the chair by the hearth and \expndtw-2 pressed her palm to staunch the flow.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "You are an evil woman," he glared at me. "Your \expndtw2 beauty is a lie. It hides an old heart."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\fs24 "Both of your friends are in pain," I said. "It isn't a \expndtw-1 time for curses."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 He looked at John in my arms and stiffened as if he \expndtw-1 would drop Ruth's hand and come to his friend.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "No. Stay with Ruth." I helped John across the room \expndtw-4 to a seat in the window; the tinted panes ruddied his pale \expndtw1 cheeks. "He will be all right. Ruth is in greater need. Let me tend her, Stephen."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "You shan't touch her."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1622\cf1\expndtw-11\fs22 72\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri48\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Ruth spoke for herself. "The pain is very sharp. Can \expndtw-1 you ease it, Lady Mary?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 I treated the wound with a tincture of opium and pow\-dered rose petals and swaddled her hand with linen. John rose from the window and stood behind me, in silent \expndtw0 attendance on Ruth\emdash and in atonement. Stephen, an \expndtw-1 active boy denied a chance to act, stammered to his \expndtw-6 friends:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "Forgive me, both of you. It was my Crusade, wasn't \expndtw1 it? I brought you to this."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Ruth's face was as white as chalk-rubbed parchment \expndtw-6 awaiting the quill of a monk. Her smile was illumination. \expndtw-2 "But you see, Stephen, Lady Mary was right to a point. \expndtw-5 I am no more an angel than you are. Less, in fact. You're \expndtw-2 a dreamer. I'm a liar. I've lied to you from the start, as \expndtw-4 Lady Mary guessed. That's why I couldn't trust her\emdash  because I saw that she couldn't trust me. My name isn't \expndtw-3 Ruth, it's Madeleine. I didn't come from heaven but the \expndtw-4 Castle of the Boar, three miles from your own kennels. \expndtw-1 My father was noble of birth, brother to the Boar. But \expndtw-4 he hated the life of a knight\emdash the hunts, the feasts, the \expndtw-5 joustings\emdash and most of all, the Crusades without God's \expndtw-2 blessing. He left his brother's castle to live as a scholar \expndtw0 in Chichester, above a butcher's shop. He earned his \expndtw-5 bread by copying manuscripts or reading the stars. It was \expndtw-7 he who taught me my languages\emdash English and Norman \expndtw-1 French and Latin\emdash and just as if I were a boy, the lore \expndtw1 of the stars, the sea, and the forest. He also taught me to play the rebec and curtsey and use a spoon at the \expndtw-1 table. 'Someday,' he said, 'you will marry a knight, a \expndtw-4 gentle one, I hope, if such still exist, and you have to be \expndtw1 able to talk to him about a man's interests, and also \expndtw-6 delight him with the ways of woman. Then he won't ride off to fight in a foolish Crusade, as most men do because \expndtw-3 of ignorant wives.' He taught me well and grew as poor \expndtw-1 as a Welshman. When he died of the plague last year, \expndtw-4 he left me pennies instead of pounds, and no relatives \expndtw-5 except my uncle, the Boar, who despised my father and \expndtw0 took me into his castle only because I was brought to \expndtw-2 him by an abbot from Chichester.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "But the Boar was recently widowed, and he had a \expndtw0 taste for women. Soon I began to please him. I think I\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1387\tx5030\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-14 73\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri24\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-9\fs24 must have grown\emdash how shall I say it?\emdash riper, more wom\-\expndtw-3 anly. He took me hawking and praised my lore of the \expndtw0 forest. I sat beside him at banquets, drank his beer, \expndtw-5 laughed at his bawdy tales, and almost forgot my Latin. \expndtw-4 But after a feast one night he followed me to the chapel \expndtw-2 and said unspeakable things. My own uncle! I hit him with a crucifix from the altar. No one stopped me when \expndtw-4 I left the castle. No one knew the master was not at his \expndtw-5 prayers! But where could I go? Where but Chichester. \expndtw-2 Perhaps the Abbot would give me shelter.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li5\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "But John, as I passed near your father's castle I heard \expndtw-3 a rider behind me. I ducked in a thicket of gorse and tumbled down some stairs into a dark vault. You see, I \expndtw-2 did have a kind of fall, though not from heaven. I was \expndtw-3 stiff and tired and scared, and I fell asleep and woke up \expndtw-2 to hear Stephen proclaiming me an angel and talking \expndtw-4 about London and tile Holy Land. London! Wasn't that \expndtw-5 better than Chichester? Further away from my uncle? Stephen, I let you think me an angel because I was tired of men and their lust. I had heard stories about you even \expndtw-6 at the castle\emdash your way with a wench. After I knew you, \expndtw0 though, I \i wanted \i0 your way. You weren't at all the boy \expndtw-5 in the stories, but kind and trusting. But I couldn't admit \expndtw-2 my lie and lose your respect.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "As for the crucifix you found in my hands, I had \expndtw-1 stolen it from my uncle. He owed me \i something, \i0 I\i  \i0 felt. \expndtw-3 I had heard him say it was worth a knight's ransom. I \expndtw-2 hoped to sell it and buy a seamstress' shop and many a \expndtw0 fine gentleman who brought me stockings to mend. \expndtw-3 When I traded it to the Mandrakes, it was just as I said. \expndtw-4 They kept their promise for the sake of their faith. You \expndtw0 see, they were much more honest than I have been."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 Stephen was very quiet. I had seen him pressed for \expndtw-4 words but never for gestures, the outstretched hand, the nod, the smile. I wanted to ease the silence with reassur\-\expndtw-2 ances and apologies. But Ruth was looking to Stephen; it was he who must speak.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "Now I'm just another wench to you," she said with \expndtw-1 infinite wistfulness. "I should have told you the truth. Let you have your way. This way, I've nothing at all."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 He thought for a long time before he spoke, and the \expndtw0 words he found were not an accusation. "I think a part\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1618\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 74\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri53\sb211\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 of me never really took you for an angel. At least, not \expndtw-1 after the first. I'm not good enough to deserve a guardian from heaven. Besides, you stirred me like a girl of flesh and blood. But I wanted a reason for running away. An \expndtw0 excuse and a hope. I lacked courage, you see. It's a fear\-\expndtw1 ful thing for a villein to leave his master. John's father \expndtw4 could have me killed, or cut off my hands and feet. So \expndtw3 I lied to myself: An angel had come to guide me! We \expndtw2 were both dishonest, Ruth\emdash Madeleine."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Ruth. That's the name you gave me."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Ruth, we can still go to London. Without any lies between us." Gestures returned to him; he clasped her shoulders with the deference of a brother (and looked to \expndtw6 John: "My arms are not yet filled"). "But Lady Mary, \expndtw4 it was cruel of you to find the truth in such a way."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "She never meant to touch Ruth," said John. "Only \expndtw0 to test her. It was things I told Lady Mary that made her \expndtw-2 suspicious."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "John, John," said Ruth, walking to him and placing \expndtw4 her swaddled hand on his arm. "I know you've never \expndtw0 liked me. You saw through my tale from the first. You thought I wanted your friend. You were right, of course. \expndtw4 I wouldn't trade him for Robin Hood, if Robin were \expndtw0 young again and Lord of the forest! But I never wished you ill. You were his chosen brother. How could I love \expndtw-1 him without loving you? I wanted to say: 'Don't be afraid \expndtw2 of losing Stephen to me. It was you he loved first. If I \expndtw5 take a part of his heart, it won't be a part that belongs \expndtw3 to you. Can't you see, John, that the heart is like the \expndtw-1 catacombs of the old Christians? You can open a second \expndtw1 chamber without closing the first. Trust your friend to \expndtw4 have chambers for both of us.' But I said nothing. It \expndtw3 would have shown me to be a girl instead of an angel."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "You're coming with us, John?" asked Stephen doubt\-\expndtw5 fully. "I didn't mean to hurt you. It was like the time \expndtw4 you stepped on my dog. But you forgave me then."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li278\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "There's no reason for us to stay."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "You'll go on a Crusade without a guardian angel?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li67\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "We'll walk to London and then\emdash who knows? Ven\-ice, Baghdad. Cathay! Maybe it was just to run away I \expndtw6 wanted, and not to save Jerusalem." He pressed John\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1392\tx5040\cf1\expndtw-5\fs23 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-21 75\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 between his big hands. "You \i are \i0 coming, aren't you, \expndtw3 brother?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "No," said John. "No, Stephen. Lady Mary needs \expndtw5 me."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "So does Stephen," said Ruth.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Stephen is strong. I was never any use to him. Just \expndtw5 the one he protected."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Someday," said Ruth, "you'll realize that needing a \expndtw2 person is the greatest gift you can give him."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "I need all of you," I said. "Stay here. Help me. Let \expndtw1 me help you. London killed my son. It's a city forsaken \expndtw5 by God."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Stephen shook his head. "We have to go, Ruth and I. \expndtw3 The Boar might follow her here. She hurt his pride as \expndtw1 well as his skill and stole his crucifix."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 John said: "I'm going to stay."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 I packed them provisions of bread, beer, and salted \expndtw2 bacon; gave them the Saracen poniard to use against \expndtw1 thieves or sell in London; and strapped the rebec and \expndtw2 kettledrums on their backs.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "You must have a livelihood in London," I said, when \expndtw2 Stephen wanted to leave the instruments with John.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 I walked with Stephen and Ruth to the wicket and \expndtw2 gave them directions for finding the road: Walk a mile \expndtw6 to the east . . . look for the chestnut tree with a hole \expndtw4 like a door in the trunk.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 But Stephen was looking over his shoulder for John.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "He stayed in the solar," I said. "He loves you too \expndtw2 much to say good-bye."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Or too little. Why else is he staying with you?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "The world is a harsh place, Stephen. Harsher than \expndtw1 the forest, and without any islands like the Manor of \expndtw-2 Roses." How could I make him understand that God had \expndtw5 given me John in return for the son I had lost to the \expndtw-5 devil?\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li38\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "I would be his island," said Stephen, his big frame shaken with sobs.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Never mind," said Ruth. "Never mind. We'll come \expndtw-1 back for him, Stephen." And then to me: "My lady, we \expndtw0 thank you for your hospitality." She curtsied and kissed my hand with surprising warmth.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 I said: "May an angel truly watch over you."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1618\cf1\expndtw-13\fs22 76\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li5\ri29\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 They marched toward the forest as proud and straight \expndtw-2 as Vikings, in spite of their wounds and their burdens. \expndtw-4 No more tears for Stephen. Not a backward look. Lon\-\expndtw-3 don. Baghdad. Cathay!\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 It was then that I saw the face in the dense foliage, a \expndtw-2 bleached moon in a dusk of tangled ivy.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "Ruth, Stephen," I started to call. "You are being \expndtw-5 watched!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 But she had no eye for the children. She was watching \expndtw-5 me. I had seen her several times in the forest. Something \expndtw-2 of curiosity\emdash no, of awe\emdash distinguished her from the \expndtw-4 gray, anonymous tribe. Perhaps it was she who had left \expndtw-5 the crosses around my estate, like charms to affright the devil. She had never threatened me. Once I had run from \expndtw-3 her. Like a wraith of mist before the onslaught of sun\-light, she had wasted into the trees. I had paused and \expndtw-2 watched her with shame and pity.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 Now, I walked toward her, compelled by a need which \expndtw1 surpassed my fear. "I won't hurt you," I said. I was \expndtw-4 deathly afraid. Her friends could ooze from the trees and \expndtw-1 envelop me before I could cry for help. "I won't hurt \expndtw2 you," I repeated. "I only want to talk."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 The rank vegetable scent of her clogged my nostrils. I \expndtw-3 had always felt that the rose and the Mandrake repre\-\expndtw0 sented the antitheses of the forest: grace and crook\-\expndtw-5 edness. Strange, though, now that I looked at her closely \expndtw-3 for the first time, she was like a crooked tree mistreated \expndtw-1 by many weathers; a natural object unanswerable to \expndtw-3 human concepts of beauty and ugliness.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Dredging archaic words from memories of old books, I spoke with soft emphasis. "Tell me," I said. "Why do \expndtw-4 you watch my house\emdash my mead-hall? Is it treasure-rich \expndtw-3 to you? Broad-gabled?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 She caught my meaning at once. "Not mead-hall."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "What then? The roses perhaps? You may pick some \expndtw-1 if you like."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "Bantling,"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Bantling? \i In my house?"\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 She knelt and seized my hand and pressed her hairy \expndtw-5 lips against my knuckles.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "Here," she said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 I flung my hands to my ears as if I had heard a Man-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1392\tx5040\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE MANOR OF ROSES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-14 77\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb202\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 drake shriek in the night. It was I who had shrieked. I fled \expndtw53 ...\expndtw5  I fled \expndtw58 ...\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 His eyes were closed, he rested against a cushion \expndtw6 embroidered with children playing Hoodman Blind. \expndtw9 He rose from his seat when he heard me enter the \expndtw1 room.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "They're gone?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "What? What did you say, John?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Stephen and Ruth are gone?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Yes."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 He came toward me. "You're pale, Lady Mary. Don't \expndtw5 be sad for me. I wanted to stay."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 I said quietly: "I think you should go with your friends. \expndtw4 They asked me to send you after them."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 He blinked his eyes. The lids looked heavy and gray. "But I am staying to protect you. To be your son. You \expndtw-4 said\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li19\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "It was really Stephen I wanted. You're only a little boy. Stephen is a young man. I would have taught him \expndtw0 to be a gentleman and a knight. But now that he's gone, \expndtw3 what do I need with a skinny child of twelve?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "But I don't ask to be loved like Stephen!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 I caught him between my hands, and his lean, hard-\expndtw2 muscled shoulders, the manhood stirring within him, \expndtw1 belied my taunts.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Go to him," I cried. ''Now, John. You'll lose him if \expndtw1 you wait!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 Pallor drained from his face, like pain routed by \expndtw2 opium, "Lady Mary," he whispered. "I think I under\-\expndtw0 stand. You \i do \i0 love me, don't you? Enough to let me go. \expndtw-2 So much\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 I dropped my hands from his shoulders. I must not touch \expndtw2 him. I must not kiss him. "So much. So much . . ."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Beyond the hedge, he turned and waved to me, laugh\-\expndtw1 ing, and ran to catch his friends. Before he could reach \expndtw3 the woods, Stephen blazed from the trees.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "I waited," he cried. "I knew you would come!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 The boys embraced in such a swirl of color, of whirling \expndtw3 bodies and clattering kettle drums, that the fair might \expndtw4 have come to London Town! Then, arm in arm with Ruth, they entered the woods:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1622\cf1\expndtw-18\fs23 78\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-6\i Thomas Burnett Swann\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\ri2765\sb202\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\i\fs23 Summer is a-comin' in, \expndtw4 Loud sing cuckoo . . .\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri19\sb106\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\i\fs23 1, \i0 also, entered the woods. For a long time I knelt \expndtw0 before one of the stone crosses left by the Mandrakes\emdash  \expndtw1 set like a bulwark between enormous oaks to thwart \expndtw2 whatever of evil, griffins, wolves, men, might threaten \expndtw4 my house. My knees sank through the moss to ache \expndtw7 against stone; my lips were dry of prayer. I knelt, \expndtw-4 waiting.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 I did not turn when the vegetable scent of her was a \expndtw2 palpable touch. I said: "Would you like to live with me in the mead-hall?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Her cry was human; anguish born of ecstasy. I might \expndtw4 have said: "Would you like to see the Holy Grail?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Serve you?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Help me. You and your friends. Share with me."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 I leaned to the shy, tentative fingers which loosened my hair and spread my tresses, as one spreads a fine \expndtw5 brocade to admire its weave and the delicacy of its \expndtw-4 figures.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Bantling," she said. "Madonna-beautiful." What had \expndtw3 John said? "I love your hair when it's loose. It's like a \expndtw4 halo \expndtw31 ..."\expndtw4  Roses and I have this in common: we have \expndtw3 been judged too kindly by the softness of our petals.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi226\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "I must go now. Those in the mead-hall would not welcome you. I shall have to send them away. For your \expndtw2 sake\emdash and theirs. Tomorrow I will meet you here and \expndtw4 take you back with me."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Earth, the mother of roses, has many children.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\cf1\expndtw1\b\fs43 THE FAIRY PRINCE\cf0\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb226\cf1\expndtw3\i\fs34 By H. C. Bailey\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li29\ri29\sb1493\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The town was a mess of crowded houses and huts, with\-\expndtw0 out form, like a heap of stones. It had been that, indeed, only a little while before. There were many Welshmen \expndtw-1 who boasted and prayed that it should be so again. But \expndtw1 already there lay about it a low girdle of white, and the \expndtw3 din and dust of King Edward's Flemish masons arose from sundown to sunset every day. Carnarvon would \expndtw0 have its walls before winter drove the English soldiers back across the marches, before the hundred ships that \expndtw1 furrowed the straits and lay, a dark forest, in the silver \expndtw2 river mouth, fled from the equinox.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 It was six hundred years ago, but if you know where \expndtw-1 to look you may still find the fairy ring on the side of \expndtw1 Cefn-du, and the cave from which the little man came. His body was covered with a grey wolf's skin that left \expndtw3 arms and legs bare. His head was all black beard and hair. On his left arm he wore a bracelet of wolf's teeth \expndtw6 and yellow stones. Beside and behind him stood a \expndtw-2 woman, who wore a sheepskin dyed with madder. They \expndtw1 were both very small and frail, but with the quick life of \expndtw2 a wild animal in eye and poise. He spoke to her in a \expndtw3 guttural droning language, and turned and went down \expndtw-2 the mountain side light and very swift of foot. They were \expndtw-1 of the race who held Wales before the Welshmen came; who wrought their axes and arrow-heads of stone; who \expndtw3 were so strange of life that the Welsh accounted them not human nor mortal. They were of the little people \expndtw-1 whom we call fairies.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 It was an evening in early spring, and after a day of \expndtw3 showers the sky spread all lucid in pale blue and violet\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li53\sb77\qc\cf1\expndtw-17\fs23 79\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2054\cf1\expndtw-13\fs22 80\expndtw0\tab\expndtw3\i H. C. Bailey\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri43\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 and lavender grey, and the vast jagged mountain peaks seemed close upon the green and silver of the sea. Some \expndtw0 way down the slope the little man checked and stood at \expndtw2 gaze. He looked across stony, barren land to the rich, \expndtw4 dark vale of the Seiont. In among its blue-green tilth \expndtw-2 were patches of black desolation. He croned some melan\-\expndtw3 choly song, and went on more slowly, swaying as he \expndtw5 went. The little people loathed war and its havoc as \expndtw-1 things unclean.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The hand of the English conqueror lay heavy upon \expndtw-1 Wales. Llewelyn, her last prince, had been slain, and all \expndtw-2 his fastnesses were fallen, and the English king held his \expndtw0 court in Carnarvon. Still the stubborn mountaineers of \expndtw-1 Gwynedd would not own him master. The English sol\-\expndtw0 diery might march up and down their valleys and burn \expndtw-2 every homestead that offered defiance, but till the moun\-tains were laid low there was refuge for every man who \expndtw4 dared starvation, and, if they were but a remnant, the \expndtw0 rest could go sullenly about their business, yielding no \expndtw3 more than they must, and making the English infinite \expndtw-1 toil and hardship, and promising themselves rebellion at the first chance. Wales was conquered, but no man sup\-\expndtw-2 posed that it was won, and, least of all men, the king in Carnarvon.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The little man, whom his wife called Corb, went down \expndtw-4 the valley white twilight fell, and slowly and more slowly, \expndtw-1 for he would not come near the houses of men who used \expndtw0 iron and ate baked bread till nightfall. The stars stood in \expndtw1 a dark sky before he came to the gate of Geulan for the \expndtw3 "good piece," the sodden goat's meat and the bowl of \expndtw1 milk which the womenfolk of David, the maer of the \expndtw-1 cymwd, ever put outside for the fairies. But on this night "good piece" there was none, and lights were burning in \expndtw0 the house, and a roaring din came from it. Corb shrank \expndtw-3 away, vanishing like a shadow behind the byres. He smelt \expndtw0 the loathsome breath of war, and trembled like a wild \expndtw1 animal aware of peril.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The house was built of stakes and wattle, roofed with branches and a thatch of furze. Within, two tree trunks, \expndtw0 stripped of their bark and polished, supported the centre \expndtw1 of the roof. Between them it was open to the sky, and \expndtw4 smoke and sparks of a blazing fire shot upwards. The\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3432\cf1\expndtw-7\fs22 THE FAIRY PRINCE\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-16 81\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri48\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-7\fs24 house was round and its earthen floor strewn with rushes. \expndtw-5 A table stood at one side laden with steaming dishes and \expndtw-1 horns of mead. At the head of it a rawboned, black-\expndtw-6 browed fellow lolled in the only chair. He wore a long \expndtw-5 surcoat, much stained and faded, but gaudy still with a \expndtw-2 hundred embroideries. By the benches on either hand \expndtw-6 were a dozen fellows like him, but something less richly \expndtw-3 put on. They ate ravenously, and shouted at each other \expndtw-1 over their meat, and loudly and violently when they turned to ask more.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Two women waited on them and a lad, with hate and \expndtw-3 fear in their eyes. An old man crouched over the fire hugging to his bosom a thing like a rude violin, and \expndtw-6 crooning to himself. The elder woman whispered some\-\expndtw-2 thing to the younger, a slight, pretty thing, all grace in \expndtw0 her close white tunic, and she fled out into the night. \expndtw1 The man at the head of the table turned with an oath:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-7\fs24 "How now, you witch?" He caught the woman's wrist. \expndtw0 "Bring your poppet back. I want her for my sport."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 The woman answered nothing, but her eyes told that \expndtw-4 she understood and defied him. He haled her close and \expndtw-6 tore off the white veil that she wore folded over her grey hair, and was saying something foul when the lad sprang \expndtw-5 in and tore her away. The soldier heaved himself up with \expndtw-4 a laugh: "Here's a snarling puppy!" quoth he, and struck \expndtw-1 the lad down into the fire. Then he stood holding his \expndtw-6 sides and chuckling while the woman dragged the sense\-less body from the flames. "What, you would deny the \expndtw-2 King's men would you, you Welsh vermin?" he said. \expndtw-4 "Out into the night with you and cool your blood. Mark \expndtw-2 you, bring me that girl back, or when we ride in the \expndtw-6 morning I will leave your homestead ashes." He reached \expndtw0 for the old man and dragged him up. "Tell her that in \expndtw-2 her own whining tongue, you croaking minstrel," he \expndtw-6 roared, and shook him and hurled him upon the woman \expndtw-1 who was still kneeling by her son. Then he fell upon \expndtw-2 them and flung them out, and kicked the stunned boy \expndtw-5 after them. The others cheered him with laughing oaths, \expndtw-3 but as he came grinning back with an "I would teach \expndtw-6 Edward Longshanks a way to ha' done with these Welsh \expndtw-2\i pardi!" \i0 there was one who twisted a lip and said, "He, \expndtw-1 too, hath a fancy for teaching at whiles."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2054\cf1\expndtw-12\fs24 82\expndtw0\tab\expndtw8\i H. C. Bailey\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li5\ri29\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 They drank up all the mead in the house, and then \expndtw-5 this captain of theirs, who was called Eustace o' Dover, \expndtw-6 rolled to the door and howled for the Welsh women. But \expndtw-4 they were fled away up the valley, and out of the dark\-\expndtw-2 ness he heard no answer save a strange moaning song \expndtw-6 that rose and fell like a stormy wind, inhuman. Corb was singing a charm against him and all horsemen, after the \expndtw-2 manner of the little people when they were troubled by \expndtw-5 ill passion and violence. Eustace o' Dover fell silent and \expndtw-2 listened, and felt a chilled sobriety and fear steal over \expndtw-5 him, and cried a querulous question. But only the moan\-\expndtw-3 ing of the song answered him, and he barred the door in a hurry and went back to the fire. Certainly the moun\-tains were full of devils.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 But in the morning, when sunlight flooded the valley \expndtw-3 and there was no sound but bird song and the music of \expndtw-7 the river, he was mighty bold again, and swore the Welsh \expndtw1 girl should not escape nun. Then said one who had \expndtw-5 marked his fears, Grey Roger: "Ay, and you swore we \expndtw-4 should burn the house. But a man grows wise o' nights."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "I'll leave the nest to lure the birds back," quoth Eus\-tace. "By sundown we will have them again." So they \expndtw-5 rode away.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 On that morning the King rode out from Carnarvon with his wolfhounds and his foresters. You see a tower of a man on the great black charger, lean, but huge of \expndtw-5 bone. His green surcoat is weatherbeaten and worn. The \expndtw-4 hat slung behind him leaves his close dark curls bare to \expndtw-5 the wind. It is a square-wrought head borne boldly, and \expndtw-1 never still, as his eyes look all ways. For all the dark curls, beard and moustache are red gold.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 They were to rouse a wolf in the glens beneath Tryfan, \expndtw2 but the din of war had driven the beasts from their \expndtw-5 haunts, and vainly the hounds ranged round Tryfan and \expndtw-4 across the valley to the glens beneath Moel Eilio. There \expndtw-6 they found, and to wild music thundered on up and down \expndtw-4 the glens towards Cefn-du.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 So the little people saw them from their cave, and \expndtw4 Corb stole out to join the sport. Never a fairy but \expndtw-6 counted it good work done to spoil a hunt that came nigh \expndtw-5 his dwelling, and these huntsmen were of the hated folk who had brought war to the mountains. So Corb laughed\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3442\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE FAIRY PRINCE\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 83\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri34\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 as he flitted on. Over the brow of a hill he caught the \expndtw5 wolf's foam flecks from the furze and laid them on \expndtw4 another line, and broke puff balls, and flung himself \expndtw1 down in a tarn. Off on the false scent the hounds sped, \expndtw0 and from above, from a cave, another of the little people \expndtw2 echoed a wolf's yelp, and the hounds answered madly. \expndtw-1 But when the King crested the hill he marked the quarry \expndtw5 against the skyline beyond the glen and checked a \expndtw-1 moment, and shouted to his foresters to whip the hounds \expndtw0 back from the false scent, and dashed right on. The for\-\expndtw1 esters rode off with blowing of horn and hallooing, but \expndtw0 the din of wolves from the caves had made the hounds mad, and they would not be turned. So the foresters \expndtw2 thundered after them, falling further and still further behind, while the King rode alone after his quarry.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 Once and again he saw the wolf, and then in the \expndtw-1 combes to northward lost him altogether, and drew rein \expndtw0 swearing, and turned to search for the hounds; but they \expndtw5 were far away on the slopes above Llyn Padarn. He \expndtw1 heard a shout, and rode to it. But that shout came from \expndtw3 Corb, who lurked on the hillside above a bog. Again \expndtw4 came the shout, and the King put spurs to his weary \expndtw2 horse. The next moment green sward yielded beneath \expndtw-2 them with a hollow sucking sound, and the horse neighed \expndtw2 in wild terror and plunged, and Mack slime rose like \expndtw-1 spray. The King hurled himself from the saddle, and, wriggling on the mire that sucked at him, reached a tus\-sock of rushes, and another and another, and haled him\-\expndtw2 self panting on to solid earth.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 He had his reins still, and braced himself and flung \expndtw-2 back his shoulders and hauled at them, shouting jollily. \expndtw-1 Madly the horse struggled, ruthlessly the King hauled at the reins, and as though he were swimming in mud the \expndtw-3 horse plunged on, slowly, slowly, till his hoofs found \expndtw-1 something firm beneath the mire, and, with an ugly gulp \expndtw3 of the sucking bog, he came out and stood streaming \expndtw2 slime and shivering. And the King, who had no breath \expndtw-1 left to speak, whose sides were heaving as his, caressed \expndtw2 him and leaned upon his neck.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Slowly down the hillside came Corb, sobbing fear. \expndtw0 Behold, he had dared a mad deed. He had mocked at a \expndtw-1 magician. Never since the world began had man or beast\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2059\cf1\expndtw-11\fs24 84\expndtw0\tab\expndtw9\b\i H. C. Bailey\cf0\expndtw0\b0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri38\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 fallen into that bog and come out again alive. But this \expndtw-4 giant had saved his horse and himself. Plainly a giant \expndtw-2 endued with the mastery of the elements, lord of earth \expndtw-5 and water and air and fire, a magician to be worshipped \expndtw-2 like the storm-cloud. Fearing doom for himself and all \expndtw-1 the little people, came Corb.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 And behold the giant began to laugh! Corb was so \expndtw-4 quaint a thing, like a goblin from some minister's carv\-\expndtw-6 ing, so little and hairy, and bowed and quaking with fear. \expndtw0 Corb bowed himself to the very ground, and put dirt \expndtw-2 upon his head. The giant laughed louder. Corb quaked \expndtw-1 the more. Such awful mirth must be omen of a grim \expndtw6 doom. "Who art thou, o' God's Name?" the King \expndtw3 roared. "Nay, nay, if thou art man do not play the \expndtw-5 worm." For Corb had gone down grovelling. The King \expndtw0 heaved him up by his wolfskin, and "Welsh art thou, \expndtw-4 little man?" he cried. And seeing that Corb understood \expndtw-2 nothing, he stumbled the question out in Welsh words.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Corb shook his head vehemently. "Of the mountain men," he said, calling his race by the name themselves \expndtw-2 used. "Of the little people"\emdash that was the Welsh name for them.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "A hobgoblin, \i pardi!\i0 "\i  \i0 the King cried. "A fairy man!" and laughed again. "Well, Sieur Fairy, hast a house for me or so much as a stable? Our stomachs cry manger." \expndtw-4 He made some more broken Welsh and signs, and Corb \expndtw-5 understood him, and, turning, beckoned him on. If this \expndtw-6 dread magician wanted no more than a meal he could be \expndtw-5 taken to the homestead of David the maer and left there, \expndtw-3 while Corb fled away to his cave.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 The day was waning now, and the shadows of the \expndtw-3 mountains lay black across the glens. Before they came \expndtw-5 to the homestead\emdash the King's horse was lame\emdash the sun was gone, and light and shadow mingled in a cool grey \expndtw-8 mist.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Eustace and his men had been before them. All day \expndtw-5 Eustace lurked in a combe above the steading, and when \expndtw-4 he saw the Welsh women creep back through the shad\-ows of sundown, he broke in for his prey. The boy tried to bar the door against him, and was dashed aside. Eus\-\expndtw-5 tace snatched the girl with a loud laugh, and crushed her \expndtw0 to his breast. She made no sound, only she fought him\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3451\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE FAIRY PRINCE\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 85\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri38\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 with every muscle of body and limb, fierce, indomitable. \expndtw4 Her mother stood aloof, giving no cry nor aiding her, \expndtw0 but staring at the Englishman hate and a cruel defiance. \expndtw1 The rest of the soldiery began to jeer and laugh. For all \expndtw0 his bulk and strength, Eustace could not master his lithe \expndtw4 quarry. He cursed her, and put a hand to his dagger. \expndtw-1 Then Grey Roger waddled up and gripped his wrist, and \expndtw0 chuckled: "Nay, nay, my master. Naked hand to naked \expndtw-1 hand is vantage enough for any man. And I'll lay a noble \expndtw4 on the lass."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li19\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The others laughed, but Eustace buffeted him off with \expndtw0 an oath. "Out on you, knave. Who leads this troop, thou \expndtw7 or I?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "The lass is the better man," Roger chuckled; and, \expndtw0 indeed, the girl tore herself free and darted away and crouched behind her mother, clinging to her. The troop \expndtw5 broke out in a great roar of laughter. Eustace strode \expndtw-2 upon her again cursing, but now Roger stood in his way. \expndtw-1 "No, by my faith! The lass hath won the bout, and Bully \expndtw3 Eustace pays forfeit by all the laws of arms. How say \expndtw2 you, lads?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Forfeit, forfeit!" they chuckled.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "I will ha' forfeit o' thy bones, Bully Roger," Eustace\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li29\sl-226\slmult0\tlhyph\tx3792\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 roared. "Stand off, I say. And you\expndtw0\tab\expndtw7 " he grasped at\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li34\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\fs23 the girl.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 He was suddenly aware of silence. The room was still as death. He turned and looked into the eyes of the King \expndtw3 and let the girl go, and shrank back and made a salute \expndtw2 and shrank back again.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Say your say," growled the King.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Eustace looked at him a moment and down again at \expndtw5 the ground. "I ha' nought to say," he muttered.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Till I came you had enough to say, methinks," quoth \expndtw1 the King. He looked round the house, at its dishevelled \expndtw4 ugliness, the scattered refuse of food, the cowering \expndtw0 woman, the mass of ashes on the hearth where the old \expndtw-2 minstrel crouched and fumbled, seeking among them the \expndtw1 seed of fire. For if once the fire was out the life of the \expndtw0 house was gone.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "Come hither, woman," he said in his stumbling \expndtw5 Welsh. "Fear nothing. I am the King."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2059\cf1\expndtw-9\fs24 86\expndtw0\tab\expndtw8\i H. C. Bailey\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri34\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "There is no King in Wales," she said fiercely. "Our \expndtw3 King Llewelyn is dead and hath left no seed."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 He looked down at her haughtily, and for a moment \expndtw5 there was silence. On a sudden Grey Roger darted to \expndtw4 the door and peered out and thrust it to and barred it, \expndtw-2 and turning with his back against it hissed out, "Sir, there \expndtw3 are Welsh spearmen all about us."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 The King sat himself down on a bench. "Who is cap\-\expndtw3 tain here?" he said, placidly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Eustace saluted again.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Methinks you have work to do," the King smiled \expndtw-4 grim.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "We will bear you safe through them, sir," Eustace \expndtw1 muttered.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs23 "They should have our horses by now," said the King.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Roger turned from the lattice window. "The horses are \expndtw2 taken," said he. "I reckon the Welshmen a hundred and\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li14\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 more."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "A hundred and more," said the King, quietly. "Well, \expndtw-2 sir, I reckon you no paladin to fight a host. What brought \expndtw3 them down on you?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "It must be the imp of a boy," Eustace muttered; and \expndtw2 then the woman laughed loud.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The King turned to her: "What had he done to your boy?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw8\fs23 "What have you done to all Wales?" she cried, \expndtw-4 fiercely.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li29\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The King glanced at her daughter. "What hath he done \expndtw1 by you, mistress?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Nothing, nothing! I am not hurt"; and she laughed.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 The woman came a step nearer, and her eyes flamed \expndtw2 at him: "Fool, fool!" she cried. "I made her the bait to \expndtw0 tempt your wild beasts to their death, and now you, too, \expndtw3 are caught."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 With grave eyes the King considered her and turned \expndtw-2 away. "It seems that you are a very skillful captain, Mas\-\expndtw6 ter Eustace," said he. "Go to, order your battle."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "We can hold the house," said Eustace, sullenly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "And if they fire it?" quoth Roger.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "They'll not fire it while the women are in."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I do not like your battle," said the King. "The women \expndtw8 shall go out to their kinsfolk, and with them, Master\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3451\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE FAIRY PRINCE\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 87\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Eustace, go you and I, for I think it is I and you whom \expndtw1 these Welshmen would choose."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 Eustace started back. "Not you, my lord!" he cried. \expndtw2 "I will go. Yes, \i pardi, \i0 I will go yield myself, and the \expndtw-2 others may hold the house with the women and hold you \expndtw2 safe till help comes from Carnarvon. I will go."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 There was a scream from the old minstrel: "The seed \expndtw4 of fire! The seed lives!" He had found a living ember \expndtw-2 and blown it red, and was feeding it with dried furze and \expndtw0 the flames leapt up. "The soul of the house is not dead!" \expndtw3 and he began a wild, hoarse song.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 The King stood up and laid his hand on Eustace's \expndtw5 shoulder. "We go together," he said. "For the rest\emdash  \expndtw4 stand to your arms, hold out to the end." He strode to \expndtw2 the door and drew the bar and beckoned the women. \expndtw-1 Slowly, amazed they came, and close behind them Eus\-\expndtw3 tace and he marched out on the Welsh spears.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 In the misty twilight they saw saffron cloaks clustering \expndtw1 and the spearheads glitter. The girl's mother cried out: \expndtw0 "Iestyn! Iestyn! we have trapped their King. See, he fol\-\expndtw5 lows after me to render himself." There was a rustle, \expndtw-1 like the sound of bees in a grove of limes on a summer's day, and the Welshmen were all round them\emdash a mob of \expndtw4 sturdy, small men, for the most part with no armour \expndtw0 above their tunics and saffron cloaks, for the most part \expndtw-1 bare-legged and bare-foot; but some few with little coats \expndtw-2 of mail and battle-axe, and sword in place of spear. They \expndtw1 all chattered together. One who seemed the leader, not \expndtw0 much more than a lad, and beardless, thrust through the \expndtw-2 midst and laid his hand on the King's arm, crying, "Yield \expndtw5 thee to me, Iestyn, son of David, son of Owen."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 The King laughed, and put on his hand a hand that \expndtw3 swallowed it up. "I am your King," he said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "He is taken. He shall pay the blood debt for David \expndtw1 thy father, for Llewelyn our prince," the woman cried, \expndtw2 and there were shouts.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li53\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I am your King," he said again. "I come not to yield \expndtw3 myself, but to do you justice."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 But it was plain that they made nothing of his broken \expndtw2 Welsh. They were muttering and pressing closer when \expndtw6 the girl cried out: "He is our King. He comes not to \expndtw3 yield himself, bat to do us justice."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2059\cf1\expndtw-18\fs23 88\expndtw0\tab\expndtw9\i H. C. Bailey\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri29\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\tlhyph\tx3504\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 Then the crowd surged one way and another with a\line\expndtw-4 roar of talk, and Iestyn, the leader, turned upon his sister\line\expndtw-2 as her mother clutched her: "Nest! What sayest thou?\line\expndtw-4 They have wronged thee even as\expndtw0\tab "\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs24 "I am not wronged. I am my own," she cried.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Her mother screamed out: "The Englishman there, he \expndtw-2 laid hands upon her. He beat down Idwal into the fire."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "I am the King," the deep voice thundered. He smiled \expndtw0 at the girl. "Speak my words in thy tongue, wench."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 So clear tones ringing phrase for phrase with the deep, \expndtw-3 it came in Welsh and English. "He says: 'I am the King. \expndtw1 I come to assure you justice on this man who hath \expndtw-5 wronged the homestead here, and justice on any man \expndtw-4 whosoever that wrongs man or maid of you. For I will show favour to none that plunders or does violence, and \expndtw-2 of me the humblest serf in Wales shall have his equal \expndtw0 right. I am your King.'\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 Then there was silence awhile and looks of wonder \expndtw-2 and questioning, and then a wave of chatter, and the \expndtw-3 woman cried out: "An English king is no king of ours. \expndtw-1 We will have a Welshman to our prince."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 But as she spoke the blast of a horn broke through \expndtw-1 her words, and they were all hushed and straining to \expndtw-3 listen. The boom and clang of men-at-arms came near, \expndtw-4 and a man thrust breathless through the throng, crying: \expndtw-3 "The English knights!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Iestyn, the leader, gripped the King's arm harder, and his mother cried out: "The blood debt! The blood debt! \expndtw-4 Strike while you may!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 But the girl screamed: "They came out to us with \expndtw-1 naked hands, Iestyn!" And Iestyn wavered, and his \expndtw3 spearmen swayed and surged, and some gathered \expndtw-3 together and ran upon the King. Eustace hurled himself \expndtw-6 in the way, and their points clashed upon his coat of mail \expndtw-5 and slipped aside, but he was borne down. Falling, he \expndtw-6 snatched at Nest and dragged her with him, and shouted: \expndtw-1 "The girl dies if you strike the King!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 With an oath the King tore her away from him; but \expndtw-5 she, laughing wildly, cried out: "Let be, let it be so, my \expndtw0 lord," and struggled, and falling again into Eustace's arms, shrieked, "I die if you strike the King."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 On the tumult the English horsemen broke, and the\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3446\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE FAIRY PRINCE\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-9 89\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri58\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 Welsh scattered before them. But the King shouted: \expndtw-4 "Halt! Halt! We be all friends here. Who strikes, strikes \expndtw-1 the King."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Then their captain rode up and saluted. "Orders, sir?" \expndtw-4 he asked, gruffly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "Have this fellow in guard, Bertram," quoth the King, \expndtw-3 thrusting at Eustace with his foot. He hauled the girl up again, and "Speak for me, mistress," he said. "I charge \expndtw-1 you all come to me in Carnarvon on St. Mark's Day. \expndtw-3 Then shall you see this knave who hath wronged you \expndtw-7 judged before a Welsh prince. For I will give you a prince \expndtw2 that was born in Wales, and can speak no word of \expndtw-3 English, and he shall rule you according to the ancient \expndtw-4 laws of Wales."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li19\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Then the woman muttered: "A fairy prince!" And the King laughed. "Come and see." \expndtw-2 The dawn of St. Mark's Day broke grey and golden \expndtw-4 over the mountains, and a haze of misty nun fled up the \expndtw-3 straits before the rising wind. In the huddled streets of \expndtw-5 Carnarvon garlands and chains of branches tossed and rustled and gleamed. Soon the town was teeming with \expndtw-4 people, the streets all eddying, crowded life. There were \expndtw-6 men-at-arms with coifs of mail and steel caps glittering \expndtw-3 above their blazoned surcoats, and the craftsmen and traders had on their gayest jerkins of russet and sarcitis \expndtw-4 and even marble cloth, each with a sprig of sweet herbs \expndtw-1 stuck in his cap. The girls had bound their hair with \expndtw0 flowers or fillets of white, and their mothers' gorgets \expndtw-4 were never so gay, and never had the Welsh town seen such a show of scarlet and purple tyretaine. Among all these you might see the white head cloths, folded like \expndtw-6 crowns, of Welsh women and Welsh saffron and madder \expndtw-5 gowns, and Welshmen holding together in little compa\-\expndtw-3 nies, muttering together, and looking askance at the \expndtw-5 Englishry, bare-legged and bare-footed, unarmed or hid\-ing their arms beneath cloak and tunic. Beyond the half-built walls, where no guards were set, all along the green \expndtw-4 valleys beyond eyeshot, there were splashes of colour, \expndtw-6 white and crimson and gold, where from each homestead \expndtw-2 and hamlet Welsh folk were hurrying to the town.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Close above the quay, where the old tower stood green \expndtw2 and yellow with lichen, where the first courses of the\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2059\cf1\expndtw-10\fs25 90\expndtw0\tab\expndtw8\i H. C. Bailey\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri34\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 walls already marked the plan of the new castle, the yeo\-\expndtw-3 men of the King's household kept clear a great space. \expndtw-4 There flaunted banners, the three lions of England, gold \expndtw-2 upon red; the red cross of St. George, the three crowns \expndtw-1 of St. Edmund, gold upon blue; the cross and martlets \expndtw-4 of St. Edward the Confessor, in blue and gold. In a little \expndtw-5 while, when the crowd was already a score ranks deep beyond the barriers and the halberds, English nobles and \expndtw-2 knights came in state to the open space in the midst. \expndtw-5 "There had they many rich ornaments, broidered on cen-\expndtw-4 dals and samites; many a fair pennon fixed on a lance, \expndtw-5 many a banner displayed," so that the gay spring air was \expndtw-2 alive with lions and leopards and stags and boars and \expndtw-4 trees and cinquefoil and roses and stars in all the colours \expndtw-3 of heraldry.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 There was a dais covered in crimson with gilt chairs \expndtw-1 upon it, and above a canopy all white and gold. Two \expndtw-5 hours before noon, marshalled by heralds in their tabards \expndtw-1 and led by the Justiciar of Wales, came a company of th\expndtw-5 e Uchelwyr, the men of note among the Welsh. They \expndtw-6 were unarmed like the English knights, and their women \expndtw-2 walked with them; but against the English they were of \expndtw-5 a strange simplicity: no long trains nor mantles of velvet \expndtw-4 on the women, no broidery of gold to their gorgets and \expndtw-6 wimples; and the men, neither clean-shaven nor bearded \expndtw-3 like the English, but all with moustaches. The men had \expndtw-5 only cloaks and tunics that left knee and leg bare to their \expndtw1 wadded boots, and there were but the three colours, \expndtw-2 white and saffron and madder, among them all.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 When they were drawn up in ranks before the da\lang1024\'ef\lang1033 s, th\expndtw-6 e trumpets sounded, and out from the tower came King \expndtw-4 Edward and his Queen. A gold diadem glittered on his close dark curls; her black hair flowed upon her shoul\-\expndtw-2 ders from a band of gold. He wore a gown of red and \expndtw-3 gold, and her mantle was gold and white. Behind them \expndtw-4 walked the pageant of their lords and ladies. To the da\lang1024\'ef\lang1033 s th\expndtw-1 ey came and saluted the people and sat them down, \expndtw0 and Robert Burnell, the Chancellor, a heavy man of \expndtw-4 heavy head, took stand beside the King; and beside the \expndtw-6 Queen came the women with the baby son that had been \expndtw-3 born to her in Carnarvon a little while before. Then the King stood up, a giant of a man, and he smiled down at\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3446\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE FAIRY PRINCE\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-21 91\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri48\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 the Queen, who sat very still and pale, her hands nervous \expndtw-3 on the white silk of her mantle. The Chancellor turned \expndtw-5 and made a sign to a black-gowned monk, and he came \expndtw-4 forward, and as the King spoke, spoke sentence for sen\-tence in Welsh.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "My good folk of Wales," the King cried, "to have \expndtw-2 your goodwill as I have your obedience I have bidden \expndtw-4 you here to-day. Ye have told me that ye will be content \expndtw-3 to take for your Prince any man so he be a Welshman. Say ye so still?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 Then there came from the Welsh folk before him mut-\expndtw-4 terings and cries and shouts, and the monk turned to the \expndtw-6 King: "They say they will welcome any Prince to Wales \expndtw0 that is Welshman born. But none other."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li19\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 The King laughed. "I will name you a Prince," he \expndtw-3 cried, "if you will follow and obey him whom I name."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 And again there was muttering and shouting, and the monk turned and said: "So they swear to do if the King \expndtw0 shall appoint one of their nation."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 The King strode forward: "I will name you one that \expndtw3 was born in Wales and can speak never a word of \expndtw-5 English. In whose life and conversation you shall find \expndtw-3 nought of Englishry."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 Whereat the Welsh shouted loud and long, and the monk said: "For such an one they swear to give their \expndtw-5 lives."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li34\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 Then the King took from the captain of his yeomen, \expndtw-5 Sir Bertram Daylesford, his shield, and on it put his baby \expndtw0 son that lay there murmuring softly, and he held the shield with its burden aloft and cried: "Behold your \expndtw-4 Prince! Here in Carnarvon was he born, and of England \expndtw-7 he knows nought. I give you mine own son to guard you. \expndtw-1 Hold him dear and cherish him, Prince of Wales."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 For a moment there was silence. Then the air was rent \expndtw-2 with shouts and laughter. After a while, from the midst \expndtw-3 of the Welsh folk, came out an old man and said: "Him \expndtw-4 we will hold dear and cherish, and for him we will give \expndtw-1 our lives," and again the shouts rose loud.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 The King called out for silence: "Look you, the first \expndtw-1 thing that your Prince shall do shall be justice. Stand \expndtw-5 forth you, Iestyn, and your mother and your sister. Bring \expndtw0 me that knave Eustace." Iestyn came from the crowd,\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2054\cf1\expndtw-7\fs25 92\expndtw0\tab\expndtw8\i H. C. Bailey\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri24\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 flushed and uneasy, leading his mother Etthil, and the \expndtw-7 girl Nest clung to her. Two yeomen marched Eustace up. \expndtw-4 Then the King lowered the shield. "Here is one that hath wronged a Welsh homestead," he cried. "Look, child!" \expndtw-3 and he made the baby look at Eustace, who was indeed \expndtw1 no pretty sight, so that the baby cried bitterly. "Thy \expndtw-5 doom is said," quoth the King, grimly. "Take him away \expndtw0 and let nun hang," and Eustace bowed his head.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Then the girl Nest cried out: "My lord, my lord!" and flung wide her arms.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 And her mother said quickly: "No, no! the babe must \expndtw1 not send him to death."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 And Iestyn drew himself up: "My lord, let the first thing we have of our Prince be mercy."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 The King put the child aside and said: "Hearken, \expndtw-5 Welsh folk! here be some of you that ask mercy on an \expndtw-6 Englishman that hath wronged a Welsh home. How say \expndtw-2 you?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Loudly, they shouted "Mercy! Mercy!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "So be it," quoth the King. "Let him go!" and the \expndtw-2 yeomen left their hold of Eustace, and he slunk away, \expndtw-4 and the eyes of the girl Nest followed him. "But hereaf\-\expndtw-6 ter, if any man whosoever doth wrong to Welsh folk their \expndtw-2 Prince will hold him to stern account."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Again the shouts rose wildly, and in eager ranks the \expndtw-6 Welsh came up to look upon their Prince as he lay in his \expndtw-3 mother's arms.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 That night in the caves of the little people it was told \expndtw-1 that peace had come again to Wales, and Corb and all the little people knew that it was their work.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\cf1\b\fs45 THE UGLY UNICORN\cf0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb187\cf1\expndtw-8\i\fs37 Jessica Amanda Salmonson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li24\ri34\sb1483\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 In a garden in China five hundred years ago, there was \expndtw-1 a maiden whose eyes were so pretty, it was difficult to \expndtw0 believe she was blind.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 The blind girl's name was Kwa Wei. She was be\-\expndtw-1 friended by the Liu-mu, a homely silver-haired creature \expndtw1 like a one-horned jackass. As Kwa Wei was blind, she \expndtw2 had no idea the Liu-mu was ugly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 It came the first time in spring. Kwa Wei had been \expndtw1 smelling orange blossoms and plums. On hearing the \expndtw-1 beast's hoofs upon the lawn, she thought it was a pony \expndtw2 broken loose from Uncle Lu Wei's stables.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 It was friendly, so she petted its head, and felt the single horn, blunt at the end.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 At once she thought it had to be a young Poh, the \expndtw0 strongest and most beautiful unicorn of the many kinds \expndtw2 that live in China. She clapped her hands and giggled. \expndtw0 "It's a Poh! Have you come to visit me in my darkness? \expndtw2 I'm glad!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The Liu-mu was too embarrassed and ashamed to say, \expndtw0 "I am not the strong, good-looking Poh, but only an unfortunate Liu-mu." He had never been mistaken for \expndtw-2 anything beautiful until now. So all he said was, "Yes, I \expndtw3 have come to visit you."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Oh! How I wish I could see you with these useless \expndtw1 eyes!" said Kwa Wei, and giggled anew.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li53\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 The Liu-mu lowered his broad head until the blunt \expndtw5 horn touched the ground. His eyes were as sad as a \expndtw0 deer's.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Would you like a ride through the garden?" asked \expndtw0 the Liu-mu. Kwa Wei clapped her hands delightedly and\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li53\sb77\qc\cf1\expndtw-19\fs23 93\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1411\cf1\expndtw-10\fs21 94\expndtw0\tab\expndtw3\i Jessica Amanda Salmonson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri67\sb211\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 climbed upon the ugly unicorn. "Hold on to my mane," \expndtw3 he said, then trotted off through a maze of hedges.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri53\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Such creatures as the Liu-mu are able to run through \expndtw0 more than one world. Kwa Wei knew at once that the \expndtw-1 garden had changed. The air was thicker with perfume. \expndtw0 Grander flowers pressed around her as she rode around \expndtw1 and about Fairyland.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 "Wheee!" exclaimed Kwa Wei, feeling the gentle wind \expndtw4 in her hair. "Faster!" she said, laughing. "Faster!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Not too fast," said the Liu-mu. "I'll get worn out."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri48\sl-230\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 Such was the first meeting of Kwa Wei and the ugly unicorn.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li24\ri43\sb226\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 The girl's uncle was a famous general under the rule \expndtw-2 of Duke Ling. Such important families live sad and vio\-\expndtw-1 lent lives.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li34\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 On the day of Kwa Wei's birth, it had been arranged \expndtw-1 that she would marry Hah Ling Me, Duke Ling's grand\-\expndtw-2 son. When the girl was two years old, she became ill and \expndtw3 lost her sight. She hardly remembered what it was like \expndtw2 to see.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 It was difficult to dissolve a marriage agreement \expndtw-1 between important families. Year after year, Duke Ling \expndtw1 wished that Kwa Wei would die, so that his favorite \expndtw-2 grandson needn't be burdened with a blind wife. If the \expndtw-1 marriage agreement were cancelled, there might be war \expndtw2 between Duke Ling and his own general.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 As for Uncle Lu Wei, he knew it was a painful situa\-tion. Over the years he had sought the aid of famous \expndtw0 physicians from all over China.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Her eyes are so beautiful," he said. "Why can't you \expndtw2 make them work?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\fs23 The physicians could do nothing.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li58\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 When his niece approached the year of marriage, \expndtw-1 Uncle Lu sent in desperation for the wizard-woman of Mount Tzu.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li62\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 The wizard-woman was thin and tiny and wrinkled. \expndtw1 She looked like an old fairy, that's how small she was. \expndtw0 She had no teeth and her nose was so small you could \expndtw-1 hardly see it. She looked into Kwa Wei's face and in her \expndtw3 eyes and finally said, "She can be cured."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3533\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE UGLY UNICORN\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-21 95\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri48\sb202\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Lu Wei was delighted. "How can she be cured?" he \expndtw-3 asked.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "It requires only the rind of an orange and the pit of \expndtw4 a plum, ground together with the horn of a Liu-mu."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Uncle Lu's spirits fell. "I have oranges and plums in \expndtw0 my garden. They will bear fruit soon. But as to the horn \expndtw3 of the Liu-mu, who has ever seen one?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 To Kwa Wei the little old wizard-woman said, "Pretty \expndtw5 girl, would you like to be able to see through those \expndtw-1 eyes?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "I cannot remember what it was like to see," she said. \expndtw2 "The world is very nice even so." Then wistfully she \expndtw1 added, "But I would like to see my friend the Poh, the \expndtw2 most beautiful unicorn in China."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Have you the Poh as your friend?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "Yes I do."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Well, you may go now. I must speak to your uncle \expndtw3 in private."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 When the blind girl left the hall, the wizard-woman said to Lu Wei: "There were silver hairs on her dress. \expndtw3 They are the hairs of the Liu-mu. It may have repre\-\expndtw1 sented itself as a glorious Poh, being ashamed of its \expndtw-2 ugliness."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 From her bag of medicine, the wizard-woman retrieved \expndtw2 two cubes of sugar. She said, "This is Liu-mu poison. \expndtw0 The Liu-mu is intelligent and will not eat from the hand \expndtw2 of anyone it doesn't know. Kwa Wei herself must feed \expndtw1 the Liu-mu the poison. Then you can tear out the horn \expndtw-2 from its brow and grind it with the orange peel and plum \expndtw1 pit. When Kwa Wei eats biscuits made of this mixture, \expndtw3 her eyes will be cured."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 When the wizard-woman returned to her mountain \expndtw3 retreat, Uncle Lu sat in his high-backed wooden chair and sighed. He said to himself, "I must let Kwa Wei \expndtw2 believe the Liu-mu is a Poh. I must trick her into be\-\expndtw-1 lieving these poisonous cubes are sugar for her pet Poh. \expndtw3 When the Liu-mu is dead, I will take its horn to make \expndtw-2 the curative biscuits. But Kwa Wei must never know how \expndtw4 it happened, or she will be unhappy. It is a sad thing, \expndtw2 but if I do not do it, there will be war with Duke Ling."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Uncle Lu was not a bad man. Nevertheless, he planned \expndtw0 to do this bad thing. Kwa Wei would have her sight; she\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1416\cf1\expndtw-13\fs22 96\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-2\i Jessica Amanda Salmonson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri43\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 would be able to marry her betrothed; no one would be \expndtw3 offended, so there would be no war. What was the life \expndtw-3 of the Liu-mu, which after all was ugly, compared to all \expndtw3 these good outcomes? Even so, Uncle Lu felt terrible.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri34\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The following afternoon, Kwa Wei once more rode the \expndtw-1 Liu-mu in and out of Fairyland. "I smell a flower unlike \expndtw4 anything in my uncle's garden!" she said excitedly. \expndtw1 "What does it look like, oh most beautiful and strong \expndtw2 Poh?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "It looks like a persimmon tree, but its flowers are \expndtw2 lacy hollow balls that glow in the middle."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Oh! And I smell something like a tulip tree, but it's \expndtw-1 different!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Its leaves are purple and red, but its flowers are \expndtw3 emerald green."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Is it true?" Kwa Wei asked. "Fairyland is a beautiful \expndtw3 place for a unicorn as beautiful as you."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The Liu-mu felt guilty not to admit it was not a Poh-\expndtw0 unicorn. To make amends for his lie, he said to the rider \expndtw3 on his back: "I would like to take you to visit the Vale of the Unicorns."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "Is there such a Vale?" asked Kwa Wei enthu\-\expndtw-2 siastically.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "The Vale of the Unicorns is terrifyingly beautiful, \expndtw2 so much so that mortals go blind if they see it. As you \expndtw3 are already blind, it will be perfectly safe. Even with\-\expndtw1 out your sight, you will feel the beauty, and smell the \expndtw11 beauty, and hear the beauty of the Vale of the \expndtw4 Unicorns."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw9\fs23 Therefore the Liu-mu took his rider toward two \expndtw3 stone lanterns. The lanterns began to grow until they \expndtw1 were as large as temples. Then Kwa Wei and the ugly \expndtw-5 unicorn were in the Vale of the Unicorns. The first unicorn \expndtw-2 they met was the fierce Hiai-chi. It was humming to itself a primitive chant in a deep voice. If birds were as big as \expndtw1 dragons, they might sound like the humming Hiai-chi.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "What is making such a deep song?" asked Kwa Wei, \expndtw0 clinging tightly to the Liu-mu's curly mane.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "It is my friend the Hiai-chi. You can say hello to it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Hello, Hiai-chi. I have come to the Vale of the Uni\-\expndtw2 corns riding the beautiful, strong Poh."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3523\cf1\expndtw2\fs22 THE UGLY UNICORN\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-14 97\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri34\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 The Hiai-chi was a unicorn twice the size of an ele\-phant. Its horn sprouted between the eyes of its dragon \expndtw1 head. It had a tail like a hundred brooms and a mane \expndtw-6 like a lion. When this wonderful animal heard Kwa Wei \expndtw-5 say she was riding on a Poh, the Hiai-chi began to laugh \expndtw-2 in its bass voice. It said, "Are you riding on a Poh? Ha \expndtw-1 ha ha! You're a funny maiden!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "Yes, I am the Poh-unicorn," said the Liu-mu sternly, \expndtw-4 and the Hiai-chi stopped laughing.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-7\fs24 "You have a marvelous voice to chant with," said Kwa \expndtw-4 Wei. "Will you chant sutras for my Uncle Lu, who has \expndtw-3 been unhappy for several days?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "I will chant sutras for your uncle," said the Hiai-chi. Then Kwa Wei and the ugly unicorn went elsewhere in the Vale. The next beast they encountered was the Kio-\expndtw-3 toan tiger-unicorn. It had striped fur and three pairs of \expndtw-5 legs. Its horn was like a licorice-and-orange candy stick. \expndtw-1 It was purring like a big kitten.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "What a pleasant sound," said Kwa Wei. "What sort \expndtw-1 of unicorn is it?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "The tiger-unicorn, Kio-toan," said the Liu-mu. "If \expndtw-2 you reach over to one side, you can scratch behind one \expndtw0 of its ears."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 Kwa Wei scratched behind the Kio-toan's ear. The \expndtw-4 beast purred louder. "Such gentle hands!" said the Kio-\expndtw1 toan. "Scratch a little to the left."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li24\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "I'm glad to meet you," said Kwa Wei as she contin\-ued to scratch behind the ear. "As I am blind, the beauty \expndtw0 of the Vale cannot hurt me. Even without sight, I can \expndtw-4 tell that it is a splendid place. And the tiger-unicorn is \expndtw-1 almost as lovely as the Poh that I am riding."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs24 The Kio-toan laughed. "So that is a Poh you are \expndtw-4 riding? Well, thank you for the nice rub behind my ear."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 The next unicorn they met was the Pih Sie, a little \expndtw-7 goat-unicorn with long white fur, golden eyes, and sweet \expndtw-2 pink lips. It made a sound like a gentle lamb and Kwa \expndtw-3 Wei guessed at once, "It's the Pih Sie! Oh, sweet little \expndtw-5 goat-unicorn, am I glad to meet you, riding as I am on \expndtw-2 China's most beautiful unicorn, the Poh!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "That is very funny," said the Pih Sie in a musical \expndtw-4 voice. "That is funny indeed. This is the most beautiful \expndtw1 Poh, is it?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1416\cf1\expndtw-19\fs24 98\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Jessica Amanda Salmonson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri58\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "Yes I am," said the Liu-mu. "Don't pretend you \expndtw5 don't know me."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "I know you very well, Master Poh, O Most Beautiful \expndtw0 Among Us. But that ugly fellow over there among the \expndtw2 peony flowers knows you better."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Among the peony flowers stood the actual Poh, a \expndtw-2 graceful horned horse with strength to devour lions. Sud\-\expndtw2 denly the Liu-mu began to tremble.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "What's wrong?" asked Kwa Wei, feeling her friend \expndtw-2 shake.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 The Poh spoke with the voice of an angelic being. \expndtw0 "The Poh that you are riding is afraid because I am the \expndtw-2 vicious Kutiao, the leopard-unicorn. I am usually danger\-\expndtw-1 ous. But here in the Vale of the Unicorns, I am harmless. Don't worry about me, strong and beautiful Poh-unicorn, \expndtw3 Ruler of the Vale of Unicorns. But as you leave, take \expndtw0 care not to run into the ugly face of the Liu-mu, or your \expndtw3 friend might not think the Vale is excellent after all."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li38\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Then the Poh, pretending to be a leopard-unicorn, \expndtw2 leapt across the hedge of peonies and was gone.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li43\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The Liu-mu, ashamed of itself, took Kwa Wei back toward the temple-sized lanterns. The two stone lanterns \expndtw0 began to shrink until they were ordinary garden decora\-\expndtw1 tions. Then Kwa Wei recognized the sounds and smells \expndtw2 of her uncle's garden.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li53\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "I am glad you took me to that place," said Kwa Wei \expndtw-1 as she climbed down from the back of the ugly unicorn. \expndtw-2 "The biggest surprise was the Kutiao. I never would have \expndtw1 guessed a leopard-unicorn would sound like an angel \expndtw3 instead of a grouchy old leopard."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Kwa Wei," said the Liu-mu, "What if I weren't the \expndtw-2 most beautiful unicorn in China, but only an unfortunate \expndtw2 Liu-mu that looks like a silly old donkey."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Ha ha!" laughed Kwa Wei. "It could never be true, \expndtw-1 so why think about it? You are gentle and the best friend \expndtw3 anyone could have. What could you be but the strong \expndtw1 and gorgeous Poh? Anyway, you are the most beautiful \expndtw7 to me."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li67\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Then remembering something, Kwa Wei opened the \expndtw0 pouch dangling from her belt, and removed two sugar \expndtw1 cubes. She said, "Uncle Lu gave me these candies and \expndtw5 said they would be a nice treat for my friend the Poh.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3523\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE UGLY UNICORN\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 99\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri29\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Here, this one's your reward for taking me through the \expndtw-1 Vale of the Unicorns."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "Thank you, I accept," said the Liu-mu as it ate the \expndtw-7 sugar.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 Kwa Wei laughed musically and said, "I'm a selfish \expndtw-3 girl, so I'll eat the other one myself." She put it right in \expndtw-4 her mouth. It was tasty but it made her head swim. She \expndtw1 said goodbye to the ugly unicorn and started away \expndtw-3 through the familiar garden.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri14\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 When it was time for the day's last meal, Kwa Wei did \expndtw-4 not show up at the table. Servants went to find out what \expndtw0 she was doing. They found her on the ground outside \expndtw-1 the mansion, unable to get up. She was carried to bed \expndtw0 and the local physician was sent for. Uncle Lu Wei \expndtw-1 arrived to see what was wrong. Kwa Wei said, "Oh, \expndtw3 Uncle, I don't feel very well. Do I have to eat my \expndtw-3 dinner?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "Not if you don't want to," said Uncle Lu.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 The doctor said, "It is something in her stomach. What \expndtw-2 did you eat today, young mistress Kwa Wei?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 The girl replied, "Nothing since lunch, except a piece\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri14\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 Lu Wei became pale when he heard this. He backed \expndtw-4 out of the room, stumbling. When the doctor came put, \expndtw-5 Kwa Wei's uncle said, "She has eaten Liu-mu poison \expndtw-6 prepared by the wizard-woman of Mount Tzu. What can \expndtw0 we do?"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li14\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "She must have the antidote in two or three hours or \expndtw-1 she will die," said the doctor.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-7\fs24 Soldiers employed by Uncle Lu Wei, along with every\-\expndtw-4 one else available in and around his mansion, were sent \expndtw-2 immediately to Mount Tzu to search for the wizard-woman. Lu Wei himself went, it was so important.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 Every afternoon, Duke Ling's favorite grandson, \expndtw-3 young master Hah Ling Me, visited the old ruler for a \expndtw-2 game of checkers. But today, the old man's favorite \expndtw0 grandson hadn't come. When a servant went to check \expndtw-6 on Hah Ling Me and find out why he was tardy, they \expndtw-5 discovered, stretched out on the floor in the young man's \expndtw-1 house, an ugly unicorn too sick to stand up.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx1416\cf1\expndtw-11\fs24 100\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Jessica Amanda\b  \b0 Salmonson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri53\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Soldiers came and surrounded the sick animal and pointed spears at him. "What have you done with Hah \expndtw-2 Ling Me!" demanded one of the soldiers.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 The sick unicorn said, "I am none other than Hah Ling \expndtw0 Me, too sick to return to my human shape."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 The soldiers weren't sure they believed it, but took the \expndtw-1 sick Liu-mu to the palace on the back of a cart. Duke \expndtw-3 Ling came out into the yard to talk to the Liu-mu. He \expndtw-2 recognized Hah Ling Me's sorrowful eyes and gentle \expndtw-3 voice. "Grandfather," said the ugly unicorn, "as I was \expndtw-2 never allowed to see my betrothed, General Lu Wei's niece, I took this other form to see her in her uncle's \expndtw-1 garden. Now I am sick and cannot change back."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 Duke Ling looked around at the members of his house\-\expndtw-5 hold, who were gathered in the yard to see the ugly uni\-\expndtw-2 corn. Then the duke announced the long hidden secret:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "My son Prince Ling, who died in brave battle ten \expndtw-1 years ago, had three wives. His favorite was Princess \expndtw0 Chu, who vanished after the death of my son. It was \expndtw-5 often rumored that the beautiful woman was a fairy prin\-\expndtw-1 cess, and that she returned to Fairyland after the death \expndtw-5 of her husband. She left behind their only child, young \expndtw-3 master Hah Ling Me, a homely boy, but so gentle and \expndtw-4 kind that everyone loved nun. As you can see, he is a fairy-boy after all, and has fallen ill in his other shape as \expndtw-6 a Liu-mu. There is only one person with the skill to nurse a Liu-mu: the wizard-woman of Mount Tzu. All my sol\-\expndtw-2 diers and even the scullery maids and servants must go \expndtw-5 at once to Mount Tzu to find the wizard-woman in order \expndtw-2 to save my fairy grandson."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\ri5\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Everyone from Lu Wei's mansion had already rushed \expndtw-1 into the mountains to seek the wizard-woman. The \expndtw-4 exception was one nurse who remained at pitiful Kwa \expndtw-5 Wei's side, mopping her brow with a silk rag. The girl moaned. Suddenly there was a commotion against the outside wall of the bedroom, as though something were \expndtw-2 trying to knock the mansion over.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 The nurse hurried to a place beside the door to the \expndtw-1 hallway and grabbed a long wooden pole. She stood ready to fight. But when the wall crumbled, the nurse \expndtw-4 saw a big animal, China's most beautiful unicorn, its one\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3437\cf1\expndtw-5\fs23 THE UGLY UNICORN\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-25 101\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri53\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 horn as long as a spear, its nostrils flaring, its four hooves \expndtw2 like big hammers pounding the floor of the bedroom.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li10\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The nurse dropped her fighting-stick and fell down in \expndtw-2 a swoon.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Kwa Wei sat up slowly and asked, "Is it an earth\-\expndtw2 quake? Why has the wall fallen in?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi197\li19\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Then Kwa Wei heard the huge footsteps and asked, \expndtw3 "Who is it?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "You have met me once before," said the Poh, and \expndtw-1 Kwa Wei recognized the angelic voice.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "You are the leopard-unicorn! You said you were dan\-\expndtw1 gerous outside the Vale of the Unicorns. Will you eat \expndtw2 me?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "I am not the leopard-unicorn, but the ruler of uni\-\expndtw3 corns, the Poh that all call beautiful. I said I was the \expndtw-1 Kutiao because your friend the Liu-mu pretended to be \expndtw5 me."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "My dear friend is not the Poh but the Liu-mu?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Now you know the truth. He is the ugliest of uni\-\expndtw3 corns. He is also sick, just like you, because you both \expndtw2 ate poison. Come quickly! Ride upon my shoulders! I \expndtw3 will take you to the only one that can save your life!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Kwa Wei struggled from beneath the covers and went \expndtw-1 to the Poh's side wearing her silk nightgown. The Poh-\expndtw-2 unicorn knelt so that Kwa Wei could climb wearily onto \expndtw1 the strong white shoulders. Then the Poh leapt through \expndtw4 the hole in the wall and ran across the tops of trees.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri10\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Duke Ling's soldiers and servants and Duke Ling him\-\expndtw-1 self were all in the mountains looking for the wizard-\expndtw3 woman, leaving behind one elderly gardener to stand \expndtw-3 over the sick Liu-mu. When the gardener saw the fiercely \expndtw-1 beautiful Poh running toward the castle, right across the tops of trees, what could the old man do but hide in the \expndtw-3 bushes?\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The Poh and its rider, Lu Wei's blind niece, landed \expndtw0 gracefully in the yard. The elderly gardener trembled as \expndtw-1 he saw the Poh snatch up the Liu-mu in its mouth as a \expndtw0 mother cat snatches up a kitten. Then the Poh ran off in \expndtw3 the direction of a small stone garden ornament, where \expndtw-1 the Poh, the Liu-mu, and General Lu Wei's blind niece, disappeared.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx1411\cf1\expndtw-13\fs21 102\expndtw0\tab\expndtw3\i Jessica Amanda Salmonson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri58\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 Just like Kwa Wei's nurse, Duke Ling's gardener \expndtw-1 fainted.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri53\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Goodness! What a strange story! Does anyone know \expndtw-3 what is likely to happen next? The most beautiful unicorn \expndtw-1 in China, with the most ugly unicorn held by the scruff, \expndtw-3 and the beautiful blind maiden riding on its back, hurried \expndtw0 into Fairyland where the Poh deposited its cargo before \expndtw4 the throne of the Fairy Queen.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The queen lived in a crystal palace. She was more \expndtw2 beautiful than mortal eyes can tell. She kept at the side \expndtw4 of her throne a small bag that looked exactly like the \expndtw-3 bag owned by the wrinkled old wizard-woman of Mount \expndtw0 Tzu. Was it possible that the withered up mountain hag and this beautiful queen were the same woman? Who \expndtw1 knows! In any case, the Fairy Queen was instantly able \expndtw3 to cure Kwa Wei and the Liu-mu of the poison.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 When the Liu-mu opened its eyes, it turned into the \expndtw3 homely but sweet young master Hah Ling Me, Duke \expndtw-2 Ling's grandson. He looked up at the Queen of Fairyland \expndtw2 and exclaimed, "Mother! I haven't seen you in so long! \expndtw3 I thought you must have died. I was sad!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "You were meant for the mortal world, Hah Ling Me, and you were meant for this mortal girl. But your grand\-\expndtw1 father Duke Ling didn't want you to marry her because \expndtw8 she is blind. Due to my tricks, I have gotten you \expndtw3 together. Now you will be married in Fairyland where \expndtw-2 no one can stop you. You will be sent home with many \expndtw-1 wedding presents to start your own house and be inde\-pendent of the families Ling and Wei. You can do what \expndtw3 you please from now on."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 "And will you cure my bride of blindness?" asked Hah \expndtw-2 Ling Me.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Fairies cannot undo what Gods require. The only \expndtw3 cure for her blindness involves your death, Hah Ling \expndtw4 Me."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li379\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 I will gladly die for Kwa Wei!" said Hah Ling Me.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Wait a minute," said Kwa Wei. "Have I complained \expndtw0 because I'm blind? If I had my vision, you could never \expndtw3 again take me to the Vale of the Unicorns, because in \expndtw1 the first place you'd be dead, and second of all, if I saw \expndtw7 the Vale with my eyes, it would blind me! I want to\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3451\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE UGLY UNICORN\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-24 103\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri14\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 marry you, Hah Ling Me, oh most beautiful boy in \expndtw-1 China!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "I am not beautiful, Kwa Wei, but you are very beauti\-\expndtw2 ful. Can you really marry such an ugly fellow?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 Kwa Wei laughed as though it were a joke. "Anyway," \expndtw4 she said, "let's get married right now."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri5\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Up on the side of Mount Tzu, the soldiers and house\-\expndtw-1 hold members of Duke Ling's palace had come to blows with the soldiers and household of Lu Wei's mansion. \expndtw-2 Scullery maids and stable workers and soldiers used their kung-fu to give each other black eyes and bloody noses. \expndtw-1 After a while, they were all worn out. Their bones were sore. The fighters were scattered on the ground, sweating and puffing and unable to move. Duke Ling and General \expndtw0 Lu Wei shouted for both sides to get up and fight some \expndtw3 more. They finally did get up, but not to fight. Instead, \expndtw1 a wonderful thing began to happen, and everyone stood \expndtw4 to see it.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Coming down from the highest part of the mountain \expndtw0 was a wedding-parade of a startling kind. Riding on the \expndtw5 back of the Poh were a groom and a bride. Hah Ling \expndtw-3 Me and Kwa Wei were both dressed in fabulous costumes \expndtw-1 and wore bright opera paint on their faces. Behind them \expndtw2 came a whole train of animals with carts full of useful \expndtw0 and valuable objects.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The Pih Sie or goat-unicorn pulled a cart laden with \expndtw-3 gold coins.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The purring Kio-toan or tiger-unicorn's cart was full of \expndtw1 fine lacquered furniture, bolts of cloth that shimmered like precious stones and metals, and swords encrusted \expndtw-3 with gems.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi197\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 The Hiai-chi or dragon-unicorn was humming the wed\-\expndtw1 ding song. It pulled a gigantic cart on which sat a big \expndtw-1 house with prettily carved doors and windows and roofs.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 Walking alongside this procession was the old wizard-\expndtw-2 woman of the mountain. She had married them herself. \expndtw-1 When the procession stopped, the wizard-woman said, \expndtw-4 "Hah Ling Me and Kwa Wei have been married in Fairy\-\expndtw1 land. These gifts will set them up in their own house. It \expndtw-2 is for Duke Ling and Lu Wei to decide where the newly-\expndtw2 weds' house will be."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx1406\cf1\expndtw-13\fs21 104\expndtw0\tab\expndtw3\i Jessica Amanda Salmonson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri5\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "I will give my north acres, closest to Duke Ling's \expndtw2 palace," said Uncle Lu Wei happily.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "I will give my south acres, closest to Lu Wei's man\-\expndtw2 sion," said Duke Ling, equally glad.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Then the beat-up and bruised members of the two \expndtw-1 households began to dance and sing together. They fol\-lowed the wedding procession down from the mountain.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 For five hundred years this story has waited to be told. \expndtw2 Now it has been.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li14\ri806\sl-403\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\b\fs43 THE BROWNIE OF THE \expndtw0 BLACK HAGGS\cf0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb230\cf1\expndtw-2\i\fs36 by James Hogg\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li24\ri5\sb1090\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 When the Sprots were Lairds of Wheelhope, which is \expndtw-1 now a long time ago, there was one of the ladies who \expndtw-5 was very badly spoken of in the country. People did not just openly assert that Lady Wheelhope (for every land\-ward laird's wife was then styled Lady) was a witch, but \expndtw-2 every one had an aversion even at hearing her named; \expndtw-5 and when by chance she happened to be mentioned, old \expndtw-3 men would shake their heads and say, "Ah! let us alane \expndtw-5 o' her! The less ye meddle wi' her the better." Old wives would give over spinning, and, as a pretence for hearing \expndtw-3 what might be said about her, poke in the fire with the \expndtw-5 tongs, cocking up their ears all the while; and then, after \expndtw-7 some meaning coughs, hems, and haws, would haply say, \expndtw-5 "Hech-wow, sirs! An a' be true that's said!" or something equally wise and decisive.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 In short, Lady Wheelhope was accounted a very bad \expndtw-6 woman. She was an inexorable tyrant in her family, quar\-\expndtw-1 relled with her servants, often cursing them, striking \expndtw-5 them, and turning them away; especially if they were religious, for she could not endure people of that charac\-\expndtw-2 ter, but charged them with every thing bad. Whenever \expndtw-3 she found out that any of the servant men of the Laird's \expndtw-4 establishment were religious, she gave them up to the military, and got them shot; and several girls that were \expndtw-5 regular in their devotions, she was supposed to have got \expndtw-7 rid of by poison. She was certainly a wicked woman, else \expndtw-3 many good people were mistaken in her character; and \expndtw-1 the poor persecuted Covenanters were obliged to unite \expndtw-2 hi their prayers against her.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 As for the Laird, he was a big, dun-faced, pluffy body,\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li53\sb67\qc\cf1\expndtw-29\fs24 105\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\tx2078\cf1\expndtw-15\fs24 106\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i James Hogg\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri43\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 that cared neither for good nor evil, and did not well \expndtw1 know the one from the other. He laughed at his lady's tantrums and barley-hoods; and the greater the rage that \expndtw3 she got into, the Laird thought it the better sport. One \expndtw1 day, when two maid-servants came running to him, in \expndtw0 great agitation, and told him that his lady had felled one \expndtw-1 of their companions, the Laird laughed heartily, and said \expndtw5 he did not doubt it.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Why, sir, how can you laugh?" said they. "The poor \expndtw1 girl is killed."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li19\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Very likely, very likely," said the Laird. "Well, it will \expndtw4 teach her to take care who she angers again."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "And, sir, your lady will be hanged."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Very likely; well, it will teach her not to strike so \expndtw2 rashly again\emdash Ha, ha, ha! Will it not, Jessy?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 But when this same Jessy died suddenly one morning, the Laird was greatly confounded, and seemed dimly to comprehend that there had been unfair play going. There \expndtw0 was little doubt that she was taken off by poison; but \expndtw3 whether the Lady did it through jealousy or not, was \expndtw-2 never divulged; but it greatly bamboozled and astonished \expndtw0 the poor Laird, for his nerves failed him, and his whole \expndtw1 frame became paralytic. He seems to have been exactly in the same state of mind with a colley that I once had. \expndtw3 He was extremely fond of the gun as long as I did not \expndtw-2 kill anything with it (there being no game laws in Ettrick \expndtw5 Forest in those days), he got a grand chase after the \expndtw1 hares when I missed them. But there was one day that I \expndtw3 chanced for a marvel to shoot one dead, a few paces before his nose. I'll never forget the astonishment that the poor beast manifested. He stared one while at the \expndtw2 gun, and another while at the dead hare, and seemed to \expndtw1 be drawing the conclusion, that if the case stood thus, \expndtw0 there was no creature sure of its life. Finally, he took his \expndtw4 tail between his legs and ran away home, and never \expndtw1 would face a gun all his life again.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 So was it precisely with Laird Sprot of Wheelhope. As \expndtw0 long as his Lady's wrath produced only noise and uproar \expndtw3 among the servants, he thought it fine sport; but when \expndtw1 he saw what he believed the dreadful effects of it, he \expndtw0 became like a barrel organ out of tune, and could only \expndtw4 discourse one note, which he did to every one he met.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li581\cf1\expndtw1\fs22 THE BROWNIE OF THE BLACK HAGGS     107\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri43\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "I wish she mayna hae gotten something she had been \expndtw0 the waur of." This note he repeated early and late, night \expndtw2 and day, sleeping and waking, alone and in company, \expndtw-1 from the moment that Jessy died till she was buried; and \expndtw0 on going to the churchyard as chief mourner, he whis\-\expndtw1 pered it to her relatives by the way. When they came to \expndtw3 the grave, he took his stand at the head, nor would he \expndtw1 give place to the girl's father; but there he stood, like a \expndtw-2 huge post, as though he neither saw nor heard; and when \expndtw0 he had lowered her head into the grave and dropped the \expndtw2 cord, he slowly lifted his hat with one hand, wiped his \expndtw-1 dim eyes with the back of the other, and said, in a deep tremulous tone, "Poor lassie! I wish she didna get some\-\expndtw4 thing she had been the waur of."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 This death made a great noise among the common peo\-\expndtw4 ple; but there was little protection for the life of the \expndtw5 subject in those days; and provided a man or woman \expndtw-2 was a real Anti-Covenanter, they might kill a good many \expndtw1 without being quarrelled for it. So there was no one to \expndtw-2 take cognizance of the circumstances relating to the death \expndtw0 of poor Jessy.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 After this the Lady walked softly for the space of two \expndtw2 or three years. She saw that she had rendered herself \expndtw0 odious, and had entirely lost her husband's countenance, \expndtw-3 which she liked worst of all. But the evil propensity could \expndtw4 not be overcome; and a poor boy, whom the Laird out \expndtw1 of sheer compassion had taken into his service, being found dead one morning, the country people could no \expndtw-1 longer be restrained; so they went in a body to the Sher\-\expndtw1 iff, and insisted on an investigation. It was proved that she detested the boy, had often threatened him, and had \expndtw-1 given him brose and butter the afternoon before he died; \expndtw-2 but notwithstanding of all this, the cause was ultimately \expndtw1 dismissed, and the pursuers fined.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 No one can tell to what height of wickedness she might \expndtw-1 now have proceeded, had not a check of a very singular \expndtw0 kind been laid upon her. Among the servants that came \expndtw-2 home at the next term, was one who called himself Mero-\expndtw4 dach; and a strange person he was. He had the form of \expndtw0 a boy, but the features of one a hundred years old, save \expndtw-3 that his eyes had a brilliancy and restlessness, which were \expndtw2 very extraordinary, bearing a strong resemblance to the\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\tx2078\cf1\expndtw-16\fs23 108\expndtw0\tab\expndtw5\i James \b Hogg\cf0\expndtw0\b0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri34\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 eyes of a well-known species of monkey. He was forward \expndtw-1 and perverse, and disregarded the pleasure or displeasure of any person; but he performed his work well and with \expndtw1 apparent ease. From the moment he entered the house, \expndtw-1 the Lady conceived a mortal antipathy against him, and \expndtw5 besought the Laird to turn him away. But the Laird \expndtw2 would not consent; he never turned away any servant, \expndtw-1 and moreover he had hired this fellow for a trivial wage, \expndtw1 and he neither wanted activity nor perseverance. The \expndtw-1 natural consequence of this refusal was, that the Lady \expndtw0 instantly set herself to embitter Merodach's life as much \expndtw-1 as possible, in order to get early quit of a domestic every way so disagreeable. Her hatred of him was not like a \expndtw4 common antipathy entertained by one human being \expndtw-1 against another\emdash she hated him as one might hate a toad \expndtw3 or an adder; and his occupation of jotteryman (as the \expndtw-3 Laird termed his servant of all work) keeping him always \expndtw2 about her hand, it must have proved highly annoying.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 She scolded him, she raged at him; but he only mocked \expndtw-1 her wrath, and giggled and laughed at her, with the most \expndtw-2 provoking derision. She tried to fell him again and again, \expndtw1 but never, with all her address, could she hit him; and \expndtw-1 never did she make a blow at him, that she did not repent it. She was heavy and unwieldy, and he as quick in his \expndtw3 motions as a monkey; besides, he generally contrived that she should be in such an ungovernable rage, that \expndtw2 when she flew at him, she hardly knew what she was \expndtw3 doing. At one time she guided her blow towards him, \expndtw-1 and he at the same instant avoided it with such dexterity \expndtw0 that she knocked down the chief hind, or foresman; and \expndtw5 then Merodach giggled so heartily, that, lifting the \expndtw0 kitchen poker, she threw it at him with a full design of \expndtw-2 knocking out his brains; but the missile only broke every \expndtw2 article of crockery on the kitchen dresser.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 She then hasted to the Laird, crying bitterly, and tell\-ing him she would not suffer that wretch Merodach, as \expndtw3 she called him, to stay another night in the family.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Why, then, put him away, and trouble me no more \expndtw3 about him," said the Laird.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "Put him away!" exclaimed she; "I have already \expndtw3 ordered him away a hundred times, and charged him \expndtw4 never to let me see his horrible face again; but he only\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li586\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE BROWNIE OF THE BLACK HAGGS     109\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri48\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 grins, and answers with some intolerable piece of impertinence."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li5\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The pertinacity of the fellow amused the Laird; his dim \expndtw0 eyes turned upwards into his head with delight; he then \expndtw1 looked two ways at once, turned round his back, and \expndtw2 laughed till the tears ran down his dun cheeks; but he \expndtw4 could only articulate, "You're fitted now."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The Lady's agony of rage still increasing from this deri\-\expndtw3 sion, she upbraided the Laird bitterly, and said he was \expndtw5 not worthy the name of man, if he did not turn away \expndtw4 that pestilence, after the way he had abused her.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Why, Shusy, my dear, what has he done to you?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "What done to me! has he not caused me to knock \expndtw1 down John Thomson? and I do not know if ever he will \expndtw2 come to life again!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Have you felled your favourite John Thomson?" said \expndtw6 the Laird, laughing more heartily than before; "you \expndtw5 might have done a worse deed than that."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "And has he not broke every plate and dish on the \expndtw0 whole dresser?" continued the Lady; "and for all this \expndtw-3 devastation, he only mocks at my displeasure\emdash absolutely \expndtw4 mocks me\emdash and if you do not have him turned away, \expndtw0 and hanged or shot for his deeds, you are not worthy the \expndtw5 name of man."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "O alack! What a devastation among the cheena \expndtw-1 metal!" said the Laird; and calling on Merodach, he said, \expndtw3 "Tell me, thou evil Merodach of Babylon, how thou \expndtw1 daredst knock down thy Lady's favourite servant, John Thomson?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li38\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Not I, your honour. It was my Lady herself, who got \expndtw-1 into such a furious rage at me, that she mistook her man, \expndtw1 and felled Mr. Thomson; and the good man's skull is \expndtw3 fractured."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "That was very odd," said the Laird, chuckling; "I do \expndtw2 not comprehend it. But then, what set you on smashing \expndtw-1 all my Lady's delft and cheena ware?\emdash That was a most \expndtw2 infamous and provoking action."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li48\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "It was she herself, your honour. Sorry would I be to \expndtw5 break one dish belonging to the house. I take all the \expndtw-1 house servants to witness, that my Lady smashed all the \expndtw4 dishes with a poker; and now lays the blame on me!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 The Laird turned his dim eyes on his Lady, who was\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li14\tx2083\cf1\expndtw-22\fs23 110\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i James \b Hogg\cf0\expndtw0\b0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\ri38\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 crying with vexation and rage, and seemed meditating \expndtw1 another personal attack on the culprit, which he did not at all appear to shun, but rather to court. She, however, \expndtw0 vented her wrath in threatenings of the most deep and \expndtw-1 desperate revenge, the creature all the while assuring her \expndtw2 that she would be foiled, and that in all her encounters \expndtw-1 and contests with him, she would uniformly come to the \expndtw2 worst; he was resolved to do his duty, and there before \expndtw3 his master he defied her.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The Laird thought more than he considered it prudent \expndtw3 to reveal; he had little doubt that his wife would find \expndtw-1 some means of wreaking her vengeance on the object of \expndtw2 her displeasure; and he shuddered when he recollected \expndtw6 on who had taken "something that she had been the \expndtw4 waur of."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 In a word, the Lady of Wheelhope's inveterate malig\-\expndtw1 nity against this one object, was like the rod of Moses, \expndtw-2 that swallowed up the rest of the serpents. All her wicked \expndtw3 and evil propensities seemed to be superseded if not \expndtw2 utterly absorbed by it. The rest of the family now lived \expndtw3 in comparative peace and quietness; for early and late \expndtw1 her malevolence was venting itself against the jottery-\expndtw0 man, and against him alone. It was a delirium of hatred \expndtw-2 and vengeance, on which the whole bent and bias of her inclination was set. She could not stay from the creature's \expndtw-1 presence, or, in the intervals when absent from him, she \expndtw0 spent her breath in curses and execrations; and then, not \expndtw-1 able to rest, she ran again to seek him, her eyes gleaming \expndtw1 with the anticipated delights of vengeance, while, ever and anon, all the ridicule and the harm rebounded on \expndtw-3 herself.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Was it not strange that she could not get quit of this \expndtw-1 sole annoyance of her life? One would have thought she easily might. But by this time there was nothing farther \expndtw0 from her wishes; she wanted vengeance, full, adequate, \expndtw-2 and delicious vengeance, on her audacious opponent. But \expndtw0 he was a strange and terrible creature, and the means of \expndtw3 retaliation constantly came, as it were, to his hand.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Bread and sweet milk was the only fare that Merodach \expndtw1 cared for, and having bargained for that, he would not \expndtw0 want it, though he often got it with a curse and with ill \expndtw1 will. The Lady having, upon one occasion, intentionally\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li581\cf1\expndtw-6\fs22 THE BROWNIE OF THE BLACK HAGGS     111\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri58\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 kept back his wonted allowance for some days, on the \expndtw-2 Sabbath morning following, she set him down a bowl of rich sweet milk, well drugged with a deadly poison; and \expndtw1 then she lingered in a little ante-room to watch the suc\-\expndtw2 cess of her grand plot, and prevent any other creature \expndtw-1 from tasting of the potion. Merodach came in, and the \expndtw6 housemaid said to him, "There is your breakfast, \expndtw3 creature."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Oho! my Lady has been liberal this morning," said \expndtw2 he; "but I am beforehand with her. Here, little Missie, \expndtw0 you seem very hungry today\emdash take you my breakfast." \expndtw3 And with that he set the beverage down to the Lady's little favourite spaniel. It so happened that the Lady's \expndtw0 only son came at that instant into the ante-room seeking her, and teasing his mamma about something, which \expndtw1 withdrew her attention from the hall-table for a space. \expndtw-1 When she looked again, and saw Missie lapping up the sweet milk, she burst from her hiding-place like a fury, \expndtw0 screaming as if her head had been on fire, kicked the \expndtw-3 remainder of its contents against the wall, and lifting Mis\-\expndtw2 sie in her bosom, retreated hastily, crying all the way.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Ha, ha, ha\emdash I have you now!" cried Merodach, as \expndtw2 she vanished from the hall.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Poor Missie died immediately, and very privately; \expndtw-1 indeed, she would have died and been buried, and never one have seen her, save her mistress, had not Merodach, \expndtw1 by a luck that never failed him, looked over the wall of \expndtw-2 the flower garden, just as his lady was laying her favour\-\expndtw3 ite in a grave of her own digging- She, not perceiving \expndtw1 her tormentor, plied on at her task, apostrophising the insensate little carcass\emdash "Ah! poor dear little creature, \expndtw0 thou hast had a hard fortune, and hast drank of the bitter \expndtw2 potion that was not intended for thee; but he shall drink \expndtw3 it three times double for thy sake!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Is that little Missie?" said the eldrich voice of the \expndtw2 jotteryman, close at the Lady's ear. She uttered a loud \expndtw1 scream, and sank down on the bank. "Alack for poor \expndtw3 Missie!" continued the creature in a tone of mockery, \expndtw0 "my heart is sorry for Missie. What has befallen her\emdash  \expndtw2 whose breakfast cup did she drink?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li58\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Hence with thee, fiend!" cried the Lady; "what right \expndtw2 hast thou to intrude on thy mistress's privacy? Thy turn\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\tx2074\cf1\expndtw-24\fs23 112\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i James Hogg\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri38\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-7\fs24 is coming yet; or may the nature of woman change within \expndtw-5 me!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi226\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "It is changed already," said the creature, grinning \expndtw-2 with delight; "I have thee now, I have thee now! And \expndtw-5 were it not to show my superiority over thee, which I do \expndtw-2 every hour, I should soon see thee strapped like a mad \expndtw0 cat, or a worrying bratch. What wilt thou try next?"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "I will cut thy throat, and if I die for it, will rejoice in the deed; a deed of charity to all that dwell on the face of the earth."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li10\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "I have warned thee before, dame, and I now warn thee again, that all thy mischief meditated against me will fall double on thine own head."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "I want none of your warning, fiendish cur. Hence \expndtw-2 with your elvish face, and take care of yourself."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 It would be too disgusting and horrible to relate or \expndtw-4 read all the incidents that fell out between this unac\-\expndtw-2 countable couple. Their enmity against each other had \expndtw-1 no end, and no mitigation; and scarcely a single day \expndtw-6 passed over on which the Lady's acts of malevolent inge\-\expndtw-2 nuity did not terminate fatally for some favourite thing \expndtw-5 of her own. Scarcely was there a thing, animate or inani\-\expndtw-4 mate, on which she set a value, left to her, that was not \expndtw-5 destroyed; and yet scarcely one hour or minute could she \expndtw-4 remain absent from her tormentor, and all the while, it \expndtw-3 seems, solely for the purpose of tormenting him. While \expndtw-5 all the rest of the establishment enjoyed peace and quiet\-\expndtw-4 ness from the fury of their termagant dame, matters still \expndtw-5 grew worse and worse between the fascinated pair. The \expndtw0 Lady haunted the menial, in the same manner as the \expndtw-2 raven haunts the eagle, for a perpetual quarrel, though \expndtw-4 the former knows that in every encounter she is to come \expndtw-2 off the loser. Noises were heard on the stairs by night, \expndtw-4 and it was whispered among the servants, that the Lady \expndtw-5 had been seeking Merodach's chamber, on some horrible \expndtw-4 intent. Several of them would have sworn that they had \expndtw-2 seen her passing and repassing on the stair after mid\-\expndtw-6 night, when all was quiet; but then it was likewise well known that Merodach slept with well-fastened doors, and \expndtw-2 a companion in another bed in the same room, whose \expndtw-6 bed, too, was nearest the door. Nobody cared much what \expndtw0 became of the jotteryman, for he was an unsocial and\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li586\cf1\expndtw-5\fs23 THE BROWNIE OF THE BLACK HAGGS     113\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri43\sb202\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 disagreeable person; but someone told him what they \expndtw4 had seen, and hinted a suspicion of the Lady's intent. \expndtw0 But the creature only bit his upper lip, winked with his \expndtw4 eyes, and said, "She had better let that alone; she will \expndtw6 be the first to rue that."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 Not long after this, to the horror of the family and \expndtw-1 the whole countryside, the Laird's only son was found \expndtw0 murdered in his bed one morning, under circumstances that manifested the most fiendish cruelty and inveteracy \expndtw-1 on the part of his destroyer. As soon as the atrocious act \expndtw-3 was divulged, the Lady fell into convulsions, and lost her \expndtw1 reason; and happy had it been for her had she never \expndtw3 recovered the use of it, for there was blood upon her \expndtw0 hand, which she took no care to conceal, and there was \expndtw5 little doubt that it was the blood of her own innocent \expndtw3 and beloved boy, the sole heir and hope of the family.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 This blow deprived the Laird of all power of action; \expndtw0 but the Lady had a brother, a man of the law, who came \expndtw-1 and instantly proceeded to an investigation of this unac\-countable murder. Before the Sheriff arrived, the house\-\expndtw3 keeper took the Lady's brother aside, and told him he \expndtw1 had better not go on with the scrutiny, for she was sure the crime would be brought home to her unfortunate \expndtw-1 mistress; and after examining into several corroborative \expndtw6 circumstances, and viewing the state of the raving \expndtw3 maniac, with the blood on her hand and arm, he made \expndtw0 the investigation a very short one, declaring the domes\-tics all exculpated.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The Laird attended his boy's funeral, and laid his head in\expndtw1  the grave, but appeared exactly like a man walking in \expndtw0 a trance, an automaton, without feelings or sensations, \expndtw-1 oftentimes gazing at the funeral procession, as on some\-\expndtw0 thing he could not comprehend. And when the deathbell \expndtw2 of the parish church fell a-tolling, as the corpse ap\-\expndtw-1 proached the kirk-stile, he cast a dun eye up towards the \expndtw4 belfry, and said hastily, "What, what's that? Och ay, \expndtw0 we're just in time, just in time." And often was he ham\-\expndtw-2 mering over the name of "Evil Merodach, King of Baby\-\expndtw-1 lon," to himself. He seemed to have some farfetched \expndtw3 conception that his unaccountable jotteryman was in \expndtw1 some way connected with the death of his only son, and\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx2074\cf1\expndtw-25\fs24 114\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i James Hogg\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri48\sb202\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 other lesser calamities, although the evidence in favour of Merodach's innocence was as usual quite decisive.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 This grievous mistake of Lady Wheelhope can only be \expndtw1 accounted for, by supposing her in a state of derange\-\expndtw3 ment, or rather under some evil influence, over which \expndtw1 she had no control; and to a person in such a state, the \expndtw2 mistake was not so very unnatural. The mansion-house \expndtw0 of Wheelhope was old and irregular. The stair had four acute turns, and four landing-places, all the same. In the \expndtw-1 uppermost chamber slept the two domestics\emdash Merodach \expndtw0 in the bed farthest in, and in the chamber immediately \expndtw-1 below that, which was exactly similar, slept the Young \expndtw5 Laird and his tutor, the former in the bed farthest in; \expndtw0 and thus, in the turmoil of her wild and raging passions, \expndtw1 her own hand made herself childless.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Merodach was expelled by the family forthwith, but \expndtw6 refused to accept his wages, which the man of law \expndtw2 pressed upon him, for fear of further mischief; but he \expndtw-1 went away in apparent sullenness and discontent, no one \expndtw-2 knowing whither.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 When his dismissal was announced to the Lady, who \expndtw4 was watched day and night in her chamber, the news \expndtw0 had such an effect on her, that her whole frame seemed \expndtw-1 electrified: the horrors of remorse vanished, and another \expndtw4 passion, which I neither can comprehend nor define, \expndtw1 took the sole possession of her distempered spirit. "He \expndtw-2\i must \i0 not go!\emdash He \i shall \i0 not go!" she exclaimed. "No, no, \expndtw0 no\emdash he shall not\emdash he shall not\emdash he shall not!" and then \expndtw2 she instantly set herself about making ready to follow \expndtw1 him, uttering all the while the most diabolical expres\-\expndtw0 sions, indicative of anticipated vengeance. "Oh, could I \expndtw-2 but snap his nerves one by one, and birl among his vitals! Could I but slice his heart off piecemeal in small messes, \expndtw-1 and see his blood lopper, and bubble, and spin away in \expndtw5 purple slays: and then to see him grin, and grin, and \expndtw-3 grin, and grin! Oh\emdash oh\emdash oh\emdash How beautiful and grand a \expndtw3 sight it would be to see him grin, and grin, and grin!" \expndtw0 And in such a style would she run on for hours together.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 She thought of nothing, she spake of nothing, but the discarded jotteryman, whom most people now began to regard as a creature that was "not canny." They had seen \expndtw3 him eat and drink, and work, like other people; still he\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li581\cf1\expndtw1\fs22 THE BROWNIE OF THE BLACK HAGGS     115\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri29\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw8\fs23 had that about him that was not like other men. He \expndtw-1 was a boy in form, and an antediluvian in feature. Some \expndtw0 thought he was a mongrel, between a man and an ape, \expndtw-2 some a wizard, some a kelpie, or a fairy, but most of all, \expndtw3 that he was really and truly a Brownie. What he was I \expndtw2 do not know, and therefore will not pretend to say; but \expndtw3 be that as it may, in spite of locks and keys, watching and waking, the Lady of Wheelhope soon made her \expndtw1 escape, and eloped after him. The attendants, indeed, \expndtw-3 would have made oath that she was carried away by some \expndtw-2 invisible hand, for it was impossible, they said, that she \expndtw-1 could have escaped on foot like other people; and this \expndtw-2 edition of the story took in the country; but sensible peo\-\expndtw3 ple viewed the matter in another light.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 As for instance, when Wattie Blythe, the Laird's old \expndtw0 shepherd, came in from the hill one morning, his wife \expndtw1 Bessie thus accosted him. "His presence be about us, \expndtw0 Wattie Blythe! Have ye heard what has happened at the ha'? Things are aye turning waur and waur there, and it \expndtw-2 looks like as if Providence had gi'en up our Laird's house to destruction. This grand estate maun now gang frae the \expndtw2 Sprots; for it has finished them."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Na, na, Bessie, it isna the estate that has finished the \expndtw0 Sprots, but the Sprots that hae finished the estate, and \expndtw-1 themsells into the boot. They hae been a wicked and \expndtw3 degenerate race, and aye the langer the waur, till they hae reached the utmost bounds o' earthly wickedness; and it's time the deil were looking after his ain."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Ah, Wattie Blythe, ye never said a truer say. And \expndtw5 that's just the very point where your story ends, and \expndtw1 mine begins; for hasna the deil, or the fairies, or the brownies, ta'en away our Leddy bodily! And the hail country is running and riding in search o' her; and there \expndtw0 is twenty hunder merks offered to the first that can find \expndtw2 her, and bring her safe back. They hae ta'en her away, \expndtw4 skin and bane, body and soul, and a', Wattie!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Hech-wow! but that is awesome! And where is it \expndtw4 thought they have ta'en her to, Bessie?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "O, they hae some guess at that frae her ain hints \expndtw2 afore. It is thought they hae carried her after that satan \expndtw1 of a creature, wha wrought sae muckle wae about the \expndtw8 house. It is for him they are a' looking, for they ken\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx2078\cf1\expndtw-22\fs23 116\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i James \b Hogg\cf0\expndtw0\b0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri58\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 weel, that where they get the tane they will get the \expndtw4 tither."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Whew! is that the gate o't, Bessie? Why, then, the \expndtw1 awfu' story is nouther mair nor less than this, that the \expndtw-1 Leddy has made a 'lopement, as they ca't, and run away \expndtw-2 after a blackguard jotteryman. Heck-wow! wae's me for \expndtw2 human frailty! But that's just the gate! When aince the deil gets in the point o' his finger, he will soon have in his haill hand. Ay, he wants but a hair to make a tether \expndtw1 of, ony day! I hae seen her a braw sonsy lass; but even \expndtw0 then I feared she was devoted to destruction, for she aye \expndtw2 mockit at religion, Bessie, and that's no a good mark of \expndtw-1 a young body. And she made a' its servants her enemies; \expndtw0 and think you these good men's prayers were a' to blaw \expndtw3 away i' the wind, and be nae mair regarded? Na, na, \expndtw-1 Bessie, my woman, take ye this mark baith o' our bairns and other folk's\emdash If ever ye see a young body that disre\-\expndtw2 gards the Sabbath, and makes a mock at the ordinances \expndtw-1 o' religion, ye will never see that body come to muckle good. A braw hand our Leddy has made o' her gibes and \expndtw2 jeers at religion, and her mockeries o' the poor perse\-cuted hill-folk!\emdash sunk down by degrees into the very dregs o' sin and misery! Run away after a scullion!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Fy, fy, Wattie, how can ye say sae? It was weel \expndtw-1 kenn'd that she hatit him wi' a perfect and mortal hatred, \expndtw4 and tried to make away wi' him mae ways nor ane."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Aha, Bessie; but nipping and scarting is Scots folk's wooing; and though it is but right that we suspend our \expndtw3 judgments, there will naebody persuade me if she be \expndtw1 found alang wi' the creature, but that she has run away \expndtw0 after him in the natural way, on her twa shanks, without \expndtw3 help either frae fairy or brownie."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "I'll never believe sic a thing of ony woman born, let \expndtw4 be a leddy weel up in years."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li43\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Od help ye, Bessie! Ye dinna ken the stretch o' cor\-\expndtw6 rupt nature. The best o' us, when left to oursells, are \expndtw4 nae better than strayed sheep, that will never find the \expndtw-1 way back to their ain pastures; and of a' things made o' \expndtw2 mortal flesh, a wicked woman is the warst."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Alack-a-day! we got the blame o' muckle that we lit\-\expndtw0 tle deserve. But, Wattie, keep ye a geyan sharp lookout \expndtw8 about the cleuchs and the caves o' our hope; for the\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li581\cf1\expndtw-5\fs23 THE BROWNIE OF THE BLACK HAGGS     117\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri67\sb202\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Leddy kens them a' geyan weel; and gin the twenty \expndtw-1 hunder merks wad come our way, it might gang a waur \expndtw4 gate. It wad tocher a' our bonny lasses."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri53\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "Ay, weel I wat, Bessie, that's nae lee. And now, \expndtw-1 when ye bring me amind o't, I'm sair mista'en if I didna hear a creature up in the Brockholes this morning, skirl\-\expndtw0 ing as if something were cutting its throat. It gars a' the \expndtw4 hairs stand on my head when I think it may hae been \expndtw3 our Leddy, and the droich of a creature murdering her. \expndtw2 I took it for a battle of wulcats, and wished they might pu' out ane anither's thrapples; but when I think on it \expndtw1 again, they war unco like some o' our Leddy's unearthly\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li14\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 screams."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri58\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "His presence be about us, Wattie! Haste ye\emdash pit on \expndtw-1 your bonnet\emdash tak' your staff in your hand, and gang and \expndtw3 see what it is."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Shame fa' me, if I daur gang, Bessie."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Hout, Wattie, trust in the Lord."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Aweel, sae I do. But ane's no to throw himsell ower \expndtw0 a linn, and trust that the Lord will kep him in a blanket. \expndtw2 And it's nae muckle safer for an auld stiff man like me \expndtw1 to gang away out to a wild remote place, where there is \expndtw0 ae body murdering another. What is that I hear, Bessie? \expndtw5 Haud the lang tongue o' you, and rin to the door, and \expndtw3 see what noise that is."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Bessie ran to the door, but soon returned, with her \expndtw4 mouth wide open, and her eyes set in her head.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "It is them, Wattie! it is them! His presence be about us! What will we do?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Them? whaten them?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Why, that blackguard creature, coming here, leading \expndtw5 our Leddy by the hair o' the head, and yerking her wi' \expndtw1 a stick. I am terrified out o' my wits. What will we do?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li53\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "We'll \i see \i0 what they \i say" \i0 said Wattie, manifestly in \expndtw2 as great terror as his wife; and by a natural impulse, or \expndtw4 as a last resource, he opened the Bible, not knowing \expndtw3 what he did, then hurried on his spectacles; but before \expndtw0 he got two leaves turned over, the two entered, a fright\-\expndtw-2 ful-looking couple indeed. Merodach, with his old with\-\expndtw11 ered face, and ferret eyes, leading the Lady of \expndtw-2 Wheelhope by the long hair, which was mixed with grey,\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx2074\cf1\expndtw-28\fs24 118\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i James Hogg\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri48\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 and whose face was all bloated with wounds and bruises, \expndtw2 and having stripes of blood on her garments.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "How's this!\emdash How's this, sirs?" said Wattie Blythe.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Close that book, and I will tell you, goodman," said \expndtw-2 Merodach.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "I can hear what you hae to say wi' the beuk open, \expndtw0 sir," said Wattie, turning over the leaves, pretending to \expndtw1 look for some particular passage, but apparently not knowing what he was doing. "It is a shamefu' business \expndtw-1 this; but some will hae to answer for't. My Leddy, I am \expndtw3 unco grieved to see you in sic a plight. Ye hae surely been dooms sair left to yoursell."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 The Lady shook her head, uttered a feeble hollow \expndtw-1 laugh, and fixed her eyes on Merodach. But such a look! It almost frightened the simple aged couple out of their \expndtw3 senses. It was not a look of love nor of hatred exclu\-\expndtw-1 sively; neither was it of desire or disgust, but it was a combination of them all. It was such a look as one fiend \expndtw0 would cast on another, in whose everlasting destruction \expndtw-1 he rejoiced. Wattie was glad to take his eyes from such countenances, and look into the Bible, that firm founda\-\expndtw3 tion of all his hopes and all his joy.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "I request that you will shut that book, sir," said the horrible creature; "or if you do not, I will shut it for you \expndtw2 with a vengeance"; and with that he seized it, and flung \expndtw1 it against the wall. Bessie uttered a scream, and Wattie \expndtw3 was quite paralysed; and although he seemed disposed to run after his best friend, as he called it, the hellish \expndtw2 looks of the Brownie interposed, and glued him to his \expndtw-1 seat.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Hear what I have to say first," said the creature, "and \expndtw1 then pore your fill on that precious book of yours. One \expndtw0 concern at a time is enough. I came to do you a service. \expndtw-2 Here, take this cursed, wretched woman, whom you style \expndtw2 your Lady, and deliver her up to the lawful authorities, to be restored to her husband and her place in society. \expndtw1 She has followed one that hates her, and never said one kind word to her in his life; and though I have beat her \expndtw-1 like a dog, still she clings to me, and will not depart, so enchanted is she with the laudable purpose of cutting my \expndtw4 throat. Tell your master and her brother, that I am not to be burdened with their maniac. I have scourged\emdash I\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li586\cf1\expndtw-5\fs23 THE BROWNIE OF THE BLACK HAGGS     119\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri53\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 have spurned and kicked her, afflicting her night and \expndtw-5 day, and yet from my side she will not depart. Take her. \expndtw-3 Claim the reward in full, and your fortune is made; and \expndtw-5 so farewell!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li10\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 The creature went away, and the moment his back was turned, the Lady fell a-screaming and struggling, like one \expndtw-2 in an agony, and, in spite of all the couple's exertions, \expndtw-4 she forced herself out of their hands, and ran after the retreating Merodach. When he saw better would not be, \expndtw-1 he turned upon her, and, by one blow with his stick, struck her down; and, not content with that, continued \expndtw-3 to maltreat her in such a manner, as to all appearance \expndtw-4 would have killed twenty ordinary persons. The poor \expndtw-2 devoted dame could do nothing, but now and then utter a squeak like a half-worried cat, and writhe and grovel \expndtw-6 on the sward, till Wattie and his wife came up, and with\-\expndtw-5 held her tormentor from further violence. He then bound her hands behind her back with a strong cord, and deliv\-\expndtw-4 ered her once more to the charge of the old couple, who \expndtw-3 contrived to hold her by that means, and take her home.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Wattie was ashamed to take her into the hall, but led her into one of the out-houses, whither he brought her \expndtw-2 brother to receive her. The man of the law was mani\-festly vexed at her reappearance, and scrupled not to \expndtw-5 testify his dissatisfaction; for when Wattie told him how \expndtw1 the wretch had abused his sister, and that, had it not \expndtw-1 been for Bessie's interference and his own, the Lady \expndtw-4 would have been killed outright, he said, "Why, Walter, \expndtw-2 it is a great pity that he did \i not \i0 kill her outright. What \expndtw-3 good can her life now do to her, or of what value is her \expndtw-6 fife to any creature living? After one has lived to disgrace \expndtw-1 all connected with them, the sooner they are taken off \expndtw2 the better."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 The man, however, paid old Walter down his two \expndtw-5 thousand merks, a great fortune for one like him in those \expndtw-3 days; and not to dwell longer on this unnatural story, I \expndtw-6 shall only add, very shortly, that the Lady of Wheelhope \expndtw-4 soon made her escape once more, and flew, as if drawn \expndtw-3 by an irresistible charm, to her tormentor. Her friends \expndtw-5 looked no more after her; and the last time she was seen alive, it was following the uncouth creature up the water \expndtw0 of Daur, weary, wounded, and lame, while he was all\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li14\tx2083\cf1\expndtw-17\fs22 120\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-2\i James Hogg\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 the way beating her, as a piece of excellent amusement. A few days after that, her body was found among some \expndtw-2 wild haggs, in a place called Crook-burn, by a party of the persecuted Covenanters that were in hiding there, \expndtw-6 some of the very men whom she had exerted herself to \expndtw-5 destroy, and who had been driven, like David of old, to \expndtw-4 pray for a curse and earthly punishment upon her. They buried her like a dog at the Yetts of Keppel, and rolled \expndtw-3 three huge stones upon her grave, which are lying there \expndtw-5 to this day. When they found her corpse, it was mangled and wounded in a most shocking manner, the fiendish \expndtw-2 creature having manifestly tormented her to death. He \expndtw-6 was never more seen or heard of in this kingdom, though \expndtw-4 all that countryside was kept in terror of him for many \expndtw-1 years afterwards; and to this day, they will tell you of \expndtw-7\i The Brownie of the Black Haggs, \i0 which title he seems to \expndtw-3 have acquired after his disappearance.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri1613\sl-408\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-10\fs42 THE DREAM OF \expndtw-14 AKINOSUK\lang1024\'c9\cf0\lang1033\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sb250\cf1\expndtw-1\i\fs34 Lafcadio Hearn\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li38\ri38\sb1488\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 In the district called To\lang1024\'ef\lang1033 chi of Yamato province, there \expndtw0 used to live a goshi named Miyata Akinosuk\lang1024\'e9\lang1033 . . . . [Here \expndtw4 I must tell you that in Japanese feudal times there was \expndtw-3 a privileged class of soldier-farmers,\emdash free-holders,\emdash cor\-\expndtw-1 responding to the class of yeomen in England; and these were called goshi.]\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 In Akinosuk\lang1024\'e9\lang1033 's garden there was a great and ancient \expndtw3 cedar-tree, under which he was wont to rest on sultry \expndtw-2 days. One very warm afternoon he was sitting under this tree with two of his friends, fellow-goshi, chatting and \expndtw10 drinking wine, when he felt all of a sudden very \expndtw-3 drowsy,\emdash so drowsy that he begged his friends to excuse \expndtw-1 him for taking a nap in their presence. Then he lay down \expndtw4 at the foot of the tree, and dreamed this dream:\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 He thought that as he was lying there in his garden, \expndtw-2 he saw a procession, like the train of some great daimyo, \expndtw3 descending a hill near by, and that he got up to look at \expndtw4 it. A very grand procession it proved to be,\emdash more \expndtw2 imposing than anything of the kind which he had ever \expndtw1 seen before; and it was advancing toward his dwelling. \expndtw4 He observed in the van of it a number of young men \expndtw-1 richly appareled, who were drawing a great lacquered \expndtw-3 palace-carriage, or \i gosho-guruma, \i0 hung with bright blue \expndtw-1 silk. When the procession arrived within a short distance \expndtw5 of the house it halted; and a richly dressed man\emdash  \expndtw10 evidently a person of rank\emdash advanced from it, \expndtw1 approached Akinosuk\lang1024\'e9\lang1033 , bowed to him profoundly, and \expndtw2 then said:\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li72\sb72\qc\cf1\expndtw-25\fs23 121\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li14\tx1939\cf1\expndtw-18\fs22 122\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Lafcadio Hearn\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\ri19\sb211\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Honored Sir, you see before you a \i k\lang1024\'e9\lang1033 rai \i0 [vassal] of \expndtw-2 the Kokuo of Tokoyo.* My master, the King, commands me to greet you in his august name, and to place myself wholly at your disposal. He also bids me inform you that he augustly desires your presence at the palace. Be there\-\expndtw2 fore pleased immediately to enter this honorable car\-riage, which he has sent for your conveyance."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Upon hearing these words Akinosuk\lang1024\'e9\lang1033  wanted to make \expndtw0 some fitting reply; but he was too much astonished and \expndtw1 embarrassed for speech;\emdash and in the same moment his \expndtw-2 will seemed to melt away from him, so that he could only \expndtw1 do as the \i k\lang1024\'e9\lang1033 rai \i0 bade him. He entered the carriage; the \expndtw-1\i k\lang1024\'e9\lang1033 rai \i0 took a place beside him, and made a signal; the \expndtw-2 drawers, seizing the silken ropes, turned the great vehicle \expndtw1 southward;\emdash and the journey began.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 In a very short time, to Akinosuk\lang1024\'e9\lang1033 's amazement, the \expndtw-1 carriage stopped in front of a huge two-storied gateway \expndtw2\i (romon), \i0 of Chinese style, which he had never before \expndtw7 seen. Here the \i k\lang1024\'e9\lang1033 rai \i0 dismounted, saying, "I go to \expndtw0 announce the honorable arrival,"\emdash and he disappeared. \expndtw-2 After some little waiting, Akinosuk\lang1024\'e9\lang1033  saw two noble-look\-\expndtw2 ing men, wearing robes of purple silk and high caps of \expndtw0 the form indicating lofty rank, come from the gateway. \expndtw-1 These, after having respectfully saluted him, helped him \expndtw1 to descend from the carriage, and led him through the \expndtw5 great gate and across a vast garden, to the entrance of \expndtw8 a palace whose front appeared to extend, west and \expndtw1 east, to a distance of miles. Akinosuk\lang1024\'e9\lang1033  was then shown \expndtw2 into a reception-room of wonderful size and splendor. His guides conducted him to the place of honor, and \expndtw3 respectfully seated themselves apart; while serving-\expndtw1 maids, in costume of ceremony, brought refreshments. \expndtw7 When Akinosuk\lang1024\'e9\lang1033  had partaken of the refreshments, \expndtw11 the two purple-robed attendants bowed low before\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li34\sb240\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 "This name "Tokoyo" is indefinite. According to circumstances it \expndtw-4 may signify any unknown country,\emdash or that undiscovered country \expndtw-3 from whose bourn no traveler returns,\emdash or that Fairyland of far-\expndtw-1 eastern fable, the Realm of Horai. The term "Kokuo" means the \expndtw-2 ruler of a country,\emdash therefore a king. The original phrase, \i Tokoyo \expndtw3 no Kokuo, \i0 might be rendered here as "the Ruler of Horai," or \expndtw0 "the King of Fairyland."\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1099\tx4949\cf1\expndtw2\fs22 THE DREAM OF AKINOSUK\lang1024\'c9\expndtw0\tab\lang1033\expndtw-17 123\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri34\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 him, and addressed him in the following words,\emdash each \expndtw8 speaking alternately, according to the etiquette of \expndtw0 courts:\emdash\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri34\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "It is now our honorable duty to inform you \expndtw48 ...\expndtw0  as to \expndtw2 the reason of your having been summoned hither. . . . \expndtw0 Our master, the King, augustly desires that you become his son-in-law; . . . and it is his wish and command that \expndtw-6 you shall wed this very day \expndtw42 ...\expndtw-6  the August Princess, his \expndtw0 maiden-daughter. . . . We shall soon conduct you to the \expndtw2 presence-chamber . . . where His Augustness even now \expndtw3 is waiting to receive you. . . . But it will be necessary that we first invest you . . . with the appropriate gar\-\expndtw0 ments of ceremony."*\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Having thus spoken, the attendants rose together, and \expndtw-2 proceeded to an alcove containing a great chest of gold \expndtw-1 lacquer. They opened the chest, and took from it various robes and girdles of rich material, and a \i kamuri. \i0 or regal \expndtw0 headdress. With these they attired Akinosuk\lang1024\'e9\lang1033  as befitted \expndtw-2 a princely bridegroom; and he was then conducted to the \expndtw4 presence-room, where he saw the Kokuo of Tokoyo \expndtw3 seated upon the \i daiza,\lang1024\i0\'86\lang1033\i  \i0 wearing the high black cap of \expndtw-2 state, and robed in robes of yellow silk. Before the \i daiza, \expndtw-1\i0 to left and right, a multitude of dignitaries sat in rank, motionless and splendid as images in a temple; and Aki-\expndtw-2 nosuk\lang1024\'e9\lang1033 , advancing into their midst, saluted the king with the triple prostration of usage. The king greeted him with \expndtw1 gracious words, and then said:\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "You have already been informed as to the reason of \expndtw-2 your having been summoned to Our presence. We have \expndtw2 decided that you shall become the adopted husband of Our only daughter;\emdash and the wedding ceremony shall \expndtw3 now be performed."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 As the king finished speaking, a sound of joyful music \expndtw9 was heard; and a long train of beautiful court ladies\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li38\sb235\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4 *The last phrase, according to old custom, had to be uttered by\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\li29\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-3 both attendants at the same time. All these ceremonial observances\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 can still be studied on the Japanese stage.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\li34\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1024\expndtw3\'86\lang1033 This was the name given to the estrade, or dais, upon which a\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\li29\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2 feudal prince or ruler sat in state. The term literally signifies "great\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\li34\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1 seat."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\tx1930\cf1\expndtw-17\fs22 124\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-2\i Lafcadio Hearn\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri62\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 advanced from behind a curtain, to conduct Akinosuk\lang1024\'e9 \lang1033 to the room in which his bride awaited him.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 The room was immense; but it could scarcely contain \expndtw-3 the multitude of guests assembled to witness the wedding \expndtw-2 ceremony. All bowed down before Akinosuk\lang1024\'e9\lang1033  as he took \expndtw-1 his place, facing the King's daughter, on the kneeling-\expndtw2 cushion prepared for him. As a maiden of heaven the \expndtw0 bride appeared to be; and her robes were beautiful as a \expndtw5 summer sky. And the marriage was performed amid \expndtw-1 great rejoicing.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Afterwards the pair were conducted to a suite of apartments that had been prepared for them in another \expndtw-1 portion of the palace; and there they received the con\-gratulations of many noble persons, and wedding gifts beyond counting.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri29\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Some days- later Akinosuk\lang1024\'e9\lang1033  was again summoned to \expndtw-1 the throne-room. On this occasion he was received even more graciously than before; and the King said to him:\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "In the southwestern part of Our dominion there is \expndtw-2 an island called Raishu. We have now appointed you \expndtw1 Governor of that island. You will find the people loyal \expndtw-1 and docile; but their laws have not yet been brought into \expndtw-3 proper accord with the laws of Tokoyo; and their customs \expndtw2 have not been properly regulated. We entrust you with \expndtw-2 the duty of improving their social condition as far as may \expndtw-1 be possible; and We desire that you shall rule them with \expndtw3 kindness and wisdom. All preparations necessary for your journey to Raishu have already been made."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 So Akinosuk\lang1024\'e9\lang1033  and his bride departed from the palace \expndtw3 of Tokoyo, accompanied to the shore by a great escort \expndtw-4 of nobles and officials; and they embarked upon a ship of \expndtw-3 state provided by the king. And with favoring winds they \expndtw3 safely sailed to Raishu, and found the good people of \expndtw1 that island assembled upon the beach to welcome them.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Akinosuk\lang1024\'e9\lang1033  entered at once upon his new duties; and \expndtw6 they did not prove to be hard. During the first three \expndtw1 years of his governorship he was occupied chiefly with \expndtw-1 the framing and the enactment of laws; but he had wise \expndtw6 counselors to help him, and he never found the work\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1099\tx4954\cf1\expndtw-2\fs22 THE DREAM OF AKINOSUK\lang1024\'c9\expndtw0\tab\lang1033\expndtw-17 125\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri34\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 unpleasant. When it was all finished, he had no active \expndtw-3 duties to perform, beyond attending the rites and cere\-\expndtw-5 monies ordained by ancient custom. The country was so \expndtw0 healthy and so fertile that sickness and want were \expndtw-6 unknown; and the people were so good that no laws were \expndtw-4 ever broken. And Akinosuk\lang1024\'e9\lang1033  dwelt and ruled in Raishu \expndtw-6 for twenty years more,\emdash making in all twenty-three years \expndtw-5 of sojourn, during which no shadow of sorrow traversed \expndtw-6 his life.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 But in the twenty-fourth year of his governorship, a \expndtw-5 great misfortune came upon him; for his wife, who had \expndtw-8 borne him seven children,\emdash five boys and two girls,\emdash fell \expndtw-5 sick and died. She was buried, with high pomp, on the \expndtw-1 summit of a beautiful hill in the district of Hanryoko; \expndtw-7 and a monument, exceedingly splendid, was placed above \expndtw0 her grave. But Akinosuk\'e9 felt such grief at her death \expndtw-1 that he no longer cared to live.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri24\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 Now when the legal period of mourning was over, \expndtw-5 there came to Raishu, from the Tokoyo palace, a \i shisha, \expndtw-2\i0 or royal messenger. The \i shisha \i0 delivered to Akinosuk\lang1024\'e9 \lang1033 a message of condolence, and then said to him:\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "These are the words which our august master, the \expndtw0 King of Tokoyo, commands that I repeat to you: 'We \expndtw-6 will now send you back to your own people and country. \expndtw0 As for the seven children, they are the grandsons and \expndtw-4 the granddaughters of the King, and shall be fitly cared \expndtw-3 for. Do not, therefore, allow your mind to be troubled \expndtw1 concerning them.''\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 On receiving this mandate, Akinosuk\'e9 submissively \expndtw-5 prepared for his departure. When all his affairs had been \expndtw-6 settled, and the ceremony of bidding farewell to his coun\-\expndtw-5 selors and trusted officials had been concluded, he was \expndtw6 escorted with much honor to the port. There he \expndtw-5 embarked upon the ship sent for him; and the ship sailed \expndtw-2 out into the blue sea, under the blue sky; and the shape \expndtw-6 of the island of Raishu itself turned blue, and then turned \expndtw-4 gray, and then vanished forever. . . . And Akinosuk\lang1024\'e9 \lang1033\expndtw3 suddenly awoke\emdash under the cedar-tree in his own \expndtw0 garden! . . .\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 For the moment he was stupefied and dazed. But he \expndtw-6 perceived his two friends still seated near him,\emdash drinking\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx1934\cf1\expndtw-12\fs21 126\expndtw0\tab\expndtw3\i Lafcadio Hearn\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri67\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 and chatting merrily. He stared at them in a bewildered \expndtw2 way, and cried aloud,\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "How strange!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Akinosuk\lang1024\'e9\lang1033  must have been dreaming," one of them \expndtw-2 exclaimed, with a laugh. "What did you see, Akinosuk\lang1024\'e9\lang1033 , \expndtw2 that was strange?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Then Akinosuk\'e9 told his dream,\emdash that dream of three-and-twenty years' sojourn in the realm of Tokoyo, in the \expndtw-2 island of Raishu;\emdash and they were astonished, because he \expndtw3 had really slept for no more than a few minutes.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs23 One goshi said:\emdash\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Indeed, you saw strange things. We also saw some\-thing strange while you were napping. A little yellow \expndtw0 butterfly was fluttering over your face for a moment or two; and we watched it. Then it alighted on the ground beside you, close to the tree; and almost as soon as it \expndtw3 alighted there, a big, big ant came out of a hole, and \expndtw4 seized it and pulled it down into the hole. Just before \expndtw-3 you woke Up, we saw that very butterfly come out of the \expndtw4 hole again, and flutter over your face as before. And \expndtw0 then it suddenly disappeared: we do not know where it \expndtw3 went."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-7\fs23 "Perhaps it was Akinosuk\'e9's soul," the other goshi said;\emdash  \expndtw-1 "certainly I thought I saw it fly into his mouth. . . . But, \expndtw4 even if that butterfly \i was \i0 Akinosuk\'e9's soul, the fact \expndtw2 would not explain his dream."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "The ants might explain it," returned the first speaker. \expndtw-2 "Ants are queer beings\emdash possibly goblins. . . . Anyhow, \expndtw5 there is a big ant's nest under that cedar-tree." . . .\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Let us look!" cried Akinosuk\'e9, greatly moved by this \expndtw3 suggestion. And he went for a spade.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 The ground about and beneath the cedar-tree proved \expndtw-1 to have been excavated, in a most surprising way, by a \expndtw-2 prodigious colony of ants. The ants had furthermore built \expndtw-1 inside their excavations; and their tiny constructions of \expndtw-2 straw, clay, and stems bore an odd resemblance to minia\-\expndtw3 ture towns. In the middle of a structure considerably \expndtw-1 larger than the rest there was a marvelous swarming of \expndtw2 small ants around the body of one very big ant, which \expndtw1 had yellowish wings and a long black head.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Why, there is the King of my dream!" cried Akino-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1094\tx4949\cf1\expndtw-2\fs22 THE DREAM OF AKINOSUK\lang1024\'c9\expndtw0\tab\lang1033\expndtw-16 127\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri10\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 suk\lang1024\'e9\lang1033 ; "and there is the palace of Tokoyo! . . . How \expndtw-1 extraordinary! . . . Raishu ought to lie somewhere south\-\expndtw4 west of it\emdash to the left of that big root. . . . Yes!\emdash here it is! \expndtw40 ...\expndtw4  How very strange! Now I am sure that I can \expndtw2 find the mountain of Hanryoko, and the grave of the \expndtw4 princess." \expndtw43 ...\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 In the wreck of the nest he searched and searched, \expndtw-2 and at last discovered a tiny mound, on the top of which \expndtw-1 was fixed a water-worn pebble, in shape resembling a \expndtw1 Buddhist monument. Underneath it he found\emdash embed\-\expndtw2 ded in clay\emdash the dead body of a female ant.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\cf1\expndtw-19\fs42 ELFINLAND\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb221\cf1\expndtw3\i\fs35 Johann Ludwig Tieck\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li43\cf1\expndtw-1\fs27 (TRANSLATED BY THOMAS CARLYLE)\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li34\sb1114\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Where is our little Mary?" said the father.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "She is playing out upon the green there with our \expndtw3 neighbour's boy," replied the mother.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I wish they may not run away and lose themselves," \expndtw3 said he; "they are so thoughtless."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 The mother looked for the little ones, and brought \expndtw-1 them their evening luncheon. "It is warm," said the boy; \expndtw4 "and Mary had a longing for the red cherries."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Have a care, children," said the mother, "and do not \expndtw4 run too far from home, and not into the wood; Father and I are going to the fields."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Little Andres answered: "Never fear, the wood fright\-\expndtw0 ens us; we shall sit here by the house, where there are \expndtw4 people near us."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 The mother went in, and soon came out again with \expndtw0 her husband. They locked the door, and turned towards the fields to look after their labourers, and see their hay \expndtw4 harvest in the meadow. Their house lay upon a little \expndtw-2 green height, encircled by a pretty ring of paling, which likewise enclosed their fruit and flower garden. The ham\-\expndtw2 let stretched somewhat deeper down, and on the other \expndtw0 side lay the castle of the Count. Martin rented the large \expndtw-1 farm from this nobleman; and was living in contentment \expndtw-2 with his wife and only child; for he yearly saved some money, and had the prospect of becoming a man of sub\-\expndtw2 stance by his industry, for the ground was productive, and the Count not illiberal.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 As he walked with his wife to the fields, he gazed cheerfully round and said: "What a different look this \expndtw-2 quarter has, Brigitta, from the place we lived in formerly!\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li77\sb72\qc\cf1\expndtw-21\fs23 128\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2952\cf1\expndtw-3\fs22 ELFINLAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 129\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri29\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Here it is all so green; the whole village is bedecked with thick-spreading fruit-trees; the ground is full of beautiful \expndtw7 herbs and flowers; all the houses are cheerful and \expndtw2 cleanly, the inhabitants are at their ease: nay, I could \expndtw-1 almost fancy that the woods are greener here than else\-\expndtw5 where, and the sky bluer; and, so far as the eye can \expndtw-2 reach, you have pleasure and delight in beholding the \expndtw2 bountiful Earth."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "And whenever you cross the stream," said Brigitta, \expndtw3 "you are, as it were, in another world, all is so dreary \expndtw-2 and withered; but every traveller declares that our village \expndtw4 is the fairest in the country far and near."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "All but that fir-ground," said her husband; "do but \expndtw4 look back to it, how dark and dismal that solitary spot \expndtw3 is lying in the gay scene: the dingy fir-trees with the \expndtw1 smoky huts behind them, the ruined stalls, the brook \expndtw-1 flowing past with a sluggish melancholy."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "It is true," replied Brigitta; "if you but approach that \expndtw-3 spot, you grow disconsolate and sad, you know not why. \expndtw-1 What sort of people can they be that live there, and keep themselves so separate from the rest of us, as if they had an evil conscience?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "A miserable crew," replied the young Farmer: "gip\-\expndtw3 sies, seemingly, that steal and cheat in other quarters, and have their hoard and hiding place here. I wonder \expndtw2 only that his Lordship suffers them."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Who knows," said the wife, with an accent of pity, \expndtw-1 "but perhaps they may be poor people, wishing, out of \expndtw4 shame, to conceal their poverty; for, after all, no one \expndtw0 can say aught ill of them; the only thing is, that they do \expndtw-1 not go to church, and none knows how they live; for the little garden, which indeed seems altogether waste, can\-\expndtw2 not possibly support them; and fields they have none."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "God knows," said Martin, as they went along, "what trade they follow; no mortal comes to them; for the place \expndtw0 they live in is as if bewitched and excommunicated, so \expndtw2 that even our wildest fellows will not venture into it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 Such conversation they pursued, while walking to the \expndtw-2 fields. That gloomy spot they spoke of lay aside from the \expndtw3 hamlet. In a dell, begirt with firs, you might behold a \expndtw-2 hut, and various ruined office-houses; rarely was smoke \expndtw2 seen to mount from it, still more rarely did men appear\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx1661\cf1\expndtw-12\fs21 130\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i Johann Ludwig Tieck\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri24\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 there; though at times curious people, venturing some\-\expndtw3 what nearer, had perceived upon the bench before the \expndtw-2 hut, some hideous women, in ragged clothes, dandling in their arms some children equally dirty and ill-favoured; \expndtw0 black dogs were running up and down upon the bound\-\expndtw3 ary; and, of an evening, a man of monstrous size was \expndtw1 seen to cross the footbridge of the brook, and disappear \expndtw0 in the hut; and, in the darkness, various shapes were observed, moving like shadows round a fire in the open air. This piece of ground, the firs and the ruined huts, \expndtw-1 formed in truth a strange contrast with the bright green \expndtw-2 landscape, the white houses of the hamlet, and the stately new-built castle.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 The two little ones had now eaten their fruit; it came \expndtw-1 into their heads to run races; and the little nimble Mary \expndtw0 always got the start of the less active Andres. "It is not \expndtw-1 fair," cried Andres at last: "let us try it for some length, \expndtw2 then we shall see who wins."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "As thou wilt," said Mary; "only to the brook we must \expndtw6 not run."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "No," said Andres; "but there, on the hill, stands the \expndtw1 large pear-tree, a quarter of a mile from this. I shall run \expndtw4 by the left, round past the fir-ground; thou canst try it by the right over the fields; so we do not meet till we \expndtw3 get up, and then we shall see which of us is swifter."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li19\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Done," cried Mary, and began to run: "for we shall \expndtw4 not mar one another by the way, and my father says it \expndtw2 is as far to the hill by that side of the Gipsies' house as \expndtw3 by this."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Andres had already started, and Mary, turning to the \expndtw-1 right, could no longer see him. "It is very silly," said she \expndtw1 to herself: "I have only to take heart, and run along the \expndtw0 bridge, past the hut, and through the yard, and I shall \expndtw-3 certainly be first." She was already standing by the brook \expndtw2 and the clump of firs. "Shall I? No; it is too frightful," \expndtw0 said she. A little white dog was standing on the farther \expndtw3 side, and barking with might and main. In her terror, \expndtw0 Mary thought the dog some monster, and sprang back. \expndtw3 "Fy! Fy!" said she: "the dolt is gone half way by this \expndtw-1 time, while I stand here considering." The little dog kept \expndtw6 barking, and, as she looked at it more narrowly, it \expndtw4 seemed no longer frightful, but, on the contrary, quite\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2952\cf1\expndtw-10\fs23 ELFINLAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-25 131\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri29\sb202\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 pretty; it had a red collar round its neck, with a glittering bell; and as it raised its head, and shook itself in barking, \expndtw4 the little bell sounded with the finest tinkle. "Well, I \expndtw1 must risk it!" cried she, "I will ran for life; quick, quick, \expndtw3 I am through; certainly to Heaven, they cannot eat me \expndtw-2 up alive in half a minute!" And with this, the gay, coura\-geous little Mary sprang along the footbridge; passed the dog, which ceased its barking and began to fawn on her; \expndtw4 and in a moment she was standing on the other bank, \expndtw1 and the black firs all round concealed from view her \expndtw3 father's house, and the rest of the landscape.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 But what was her astonishment when here! The loveli\-est, most variegated flower-garden, lay round her; tulips, roses, and lilies were glittering in the fairest colours; blue and gold-red butterflies were wavering in the blossoms; \expndtw-3 cages of shining wire were hung on the espaliers, with \expndtw2 many-coloured birds in them, singing beautiful songs; \expndtw0 and children, in short white frocks with flowing yellow \expndtw-2 hair and brilliant eyes, were frolicking about; some play\-\expndtw-1 ing with lambkins, some feeding the birds, or gathering \expndtw1 flowers, and giving them to one another; some, again, \expndtw-1 were eating cherries, grapes, and ruddy apricots. No hut \expndtw1 was to be seen; but instead of it, a large fair house, with a brazen door and lofty statues, stood glancing in the \expndtw-3 middle of the space. Mary was confounded with surprise, \expndtw-1 and knew not what to think; but, not being bashful, she \expndtw3 went right up to the first of the children, held out her \expndtw2 hand, and wished the little creature good-even.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Art thou come to visit us, then?" said the glittering \expndtw-1 child; "I saw thee running, playing on the other side, but \expndtw3 thou wert frightened at our little dog."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "So you are not gipsies and rogues," said Mary, "as \expndtw3 Andres always told me? He is a stupid thing, and talks \expndtw4 of much he does not understand."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Stay with us," said the strange little girl; "thou wilt like it well."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "But we are running a race."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Thou wilt find thy comrade soon enough. There, take \expndtw5 and eat."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Mary ate, and found the fruit more sweet than any she \expndtw4 had ever tasted in her life before; and Andres, and the\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\tx1656\cf1\expndtw-12\fs21 132\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i Johann Ludwig Tieck\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri43\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 race, and the prohibition of her parents, were entirely forgotten.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 A stately woman, in a shining robe, came towards \expndtw-1 them, and asked about the stranger child. "Fairest lady," \expndtw1 said Mary, "I came running hither by chance, and now \expndtw4 they wish to keep me."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Thou art aware, Zerina," said the lady, "that she can \expndtw-2 be here but for a little while; besides, thou shouldst have \expndtw2 asked my leave."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "I thought," said Zerina, "when I saw her admitted \expndtw0 across the bridge, that I might do it; we have often seen \expndtw1 her running in the fields, and thou thyself hast taken \expndtw0 pleasure in her lively temper. She will have to leave us \expndtw2 soon enough."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "No, I will stay here," said the little stranger; "for \expndtw0 here it is so beautiful, and here I shall find the prettiest playthings, and store of berries and cherries to boot. On \expndtw4 the other side it is not half so grand."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 The gold-robed lady went away with a smile; and many \expndtw4 of the children now came bounding round the happy \expndtw-1 Mary in their mirth, and twitched her, and incited her to dance; others brought her lambs, or curious playthings; \expndtw3 others made music on instruments, and sang to it.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 She kept, however, by the playmate who had first met her; for Zerina was the kindest and loveliest of them all. \expndtw-3 Little Mary cried and cried again: "I will stay with you forever; I will stay with you, and you shall be my sisters"; \expndtw3 at which the children all laughed, and embraced her. \expndtw-1 "Now we shall have a royal sport," said Zerina. She ran into the palace, and returned with a little golden box, in \expndtw1 which lay a quantity of seeds, like glittering dust. She \expndtw-1 lifted of it with her little hand, and scattered some grains \expndtw4 on the green earth. Instantly the grass began to move, \expndtw-2 as in waves; and, after a few moments, bright rosebushes \expndtw0 started from the ground, shot rapidly up, and budded all \expndtw4 at once, while the sweetest perfume filled the place. \expndtw0 Mary also took a little of the dust, and, having scattered \expndtw-1 it, she saw white lilies, and the most variegated pinks, pushing up. At a signal from Zerina, the flowers disap\-\expndtw0 peared, and others rose in their room. "Now," said Zer\-\expndtw5 ina, "look for something greater." She laid two pine \expndtw3 seeds in the ground, and stamped them in sharply with\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2957\cf1\expndtw-3\fs22 ELFINLAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 133\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri24\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 her foot. Two green bushes stood before them. "Grasp \expndtw-4 me fast," said she; and Mary threw her arms about the \expndtw0 slender form. She felt herself borne upwards; for the \expndtw-5 trees were springing under them with the greatest speed; \expndtw-6 the tall pines waved to and fro, and the two children held \expndtw-4 each other fast embraced, swinging this way and that in \expndtw0 the red clouds of the twilight, and kissed each other; \expndtw-7 while the rest were climbing up and down the trunks with \expndtw-2 quick dexterity, pushing and teasing one another with \expndtw-5 loud laughter when they met; if any one fell down in the press, it flew through the air, and sank slowly and surely \expndtw-6 to the ground. At length Mary was beginning to be fright\-\expndtw-5 ened; and the other little child sang a few loud tones, and the trees again sank down and set them on the ground as \expndtw-1 gradually as they had lifted them before to the clouds.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 They next went through the brazen door of the palace. \expndtw-3 Here many fair women, elderly and young, were sitting \expndtw-4 in the round hall, partaking of the fairest fruits, and lis\-tening to glorious invisible music. In the vaulting of the \expndtw-6 ceiling, palms, flowers, and groves stood painted, among \expndtw-7 which little figures of children were sporting and winding \expndtw1 in every graceful posture; and with the tones of the \expndtw-7 music, the images altered and glowed with the most burn\-\expndtw-5 ing colours; now the blue and green were sparkling like \expndtw-4 radiant light, now these tints faded back in paleness, the \expndtw-3 purple flamed up, and the gold took fire; and then the \expndtw-5 naked children seemed to be alive among the flower-\expndtw-3 garlands and to draw breath, and emit it through their \expndtw1 ruby-coloured lips; so that by fits you could see the \expndtw-3 glance of their little white teeth, and the lighting up of their azure eyes.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 From the hall, a stair of brass led down to a subterra\-\expndtw-5 nean chamber. Here lay much gold and silver, and pre\-\expndtw0 cious stones of every hue shone out between them. \expndtw-2 Strange vessels stood along the walls, and all seemed \expndtw-7 filled with costly things. The gold was worked into many \expndtw-4 forms, and glittered with the friendliest red. Many little \expndtw-6 dwarfs were busied sorting the pieces from the heap, and \expndtw-5 putting them in the vessels; others, hunch-backed and \expndtw-6 bandy-legged, with long red noses, were tottering slowly \expndtw-3 along, half-bent to the ground, under full sacks, which \expndtw-4 they bore as millers do their grain; and, with much pant-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\tx1656\cf1\expndtw-10\fs21 134\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i Johann Ludwig Tieck\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri34\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 ing, shaking out the gold-dust on the ground. Then they darted awkwardly to the right and left, and caught the \expndtw-1 rolling balls that were like to run away; and it happened now and then that one in his eagerness overset the other, \expndtw-2 so that both fell heavily and clumsily to the ground. They \expndtw0 made angry faces, and looked askance, as Mary laughed \expndtw1 at their gestures and their ugliness. Behind them sat an \expndtw8 old crumpled little man, whom Zerina reverently \expndtw1 greeted; he thanked her with a grave inclination of his head. He held a sceptre in his hand, and wore a crown \expndtw4 upon his brow, and all the other dwarfs appeared to \expndtw3 regard him as their master, and obey his nod.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "What more wanted?" asked he, with a surly voice, as \expndtw2 the children came a little nearer. Mary was afraid, and \expndtw0 did not speak; but her companion answered, they were \expndtw3 only come to look about them in the chambers. "Still \expndtw1 your old child's tricks!" replied the dwarf: "Will there never be an end to idleness?" With this, he turned again \expndtw-2 to his employment, kept his people weighing and sorting \expndtw0 the ingots; some he sent away on errands, some he chid with angry tones.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Who is the gentleman?" said Mary.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Our Metal-Prince," replied Zerina, as they walked \expndtw-4 along.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 They seemed once more to reach the open air, for they \expndtw1 were standing by a lake, yet no sun appeared, and they \expndtw5 saw no sky above their heads. A little boat received \expndtw0 them, and Zerina steered it diligently forwards. It shot \expndtw1 rapidly along. On gaining the middle of the lake, the \expndtw3 stranger saw that multitudes of pipes, channels, and \expndtw-1 brooks, were spreading from the little sea in every direc\-\expndtw3 tion. "These waters to the right," said Zerina, "flow \expndtw-3 beneath your garden, and this is why it blooms so freshly; \expndtw4 by the other side we get down into the great stream." \expndtw2 On a sudden, out of all the channels, and from every \expndtw-1 quarter of the lake, came a crowd of little children swim\-\expndtw1 ming up; some wore garlands of sedge and water-lily; \expndtw0 some had red stems of coral, others were blowing on \expndtw-1 crooked shells; a tumultuous noise echoed merrily from \expndtw1 the dark shores; among the children might be seen the \expndtw2 fairest women sporting in the waters, and often several \expndtw0 of the children sprang about some one of them, and with\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2952\cf1\expndtw-3\fs22 ELFINLAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-16 135\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri29\sb202\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 kisses hung upon her neck and shoulders. All saluted the \expndtw-4 strangers; and these steered onwards through the revelry \expndtw-3 out of the lake, into a little river, which grew narrower \expndtw1 and narrower. At last the boat came aground. The \expndtw-2 strangers took their leave, and Zerina knocked against \expndtw-4 the cuff. This opened like a door, and a female form, all red, assisted them to mount. "Are you all brisk here?" \expndtw0 inquired Zerina. "They are just at work," replied the other, "and happy as they could wish; indeed, the heat \expndtw-4 is very pleasant.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 They went up a winding stair, and on a sudden Mary found herself in a most resplendent hall, so that as she \expndtw-3 entered, her eyes were dazzled by the radiance. Flame-\expndtw-5 coloured tapestry covered the walls with a purple glow; \expndtw2 and when her eve had grown a little used to it, the \expndtw-3 stranger saw, to her astonishment, that, in the tapestry, \expndtw-6 there were figures moving up and down in dancing joy-\expndtw-5 fulness; in form so beautiful, and of so fair proportions, \expndtw-3 that nothing could be seen more graceful; their bodies \expndtw-5 were as of red crystal, so that it appeared as if the blood \expndtw-1 were visible within them, flowing and playing in its courses. They smiled on the stranger, and saluted her \expndtw-6 with various bows; but as Mary was about approaching \expndtw-4 nearer them, Zerina plucked her sharply back, crying: "Thou wilt burn thyself, my little Mary, for the whole of \expndtw0 it is fire."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Mary felt the heat. "Why do the pretty creatures not \expndtw0 come out," said she, "and play with us?"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "As thou livest in the Air," replied the other, "so are \expndtw-5 they obliged to stay continually in Fire, and would faint \expndtw-6 and languish if they left it. Look now, how glad they are, \expndtw-5 how they laugh and shout; those down below spread out \expndtw4 the fire-floods everywhere beneath the earth, and \expndtw-3 thereby the flowers, and fruits, and wine, are made to \expndtw-4 flourish; these red streams again, are to run beside the \expndtw0 brooks of water; and thus the fiery creatures are kept \expndtw1 ever busy and glad. But for thee it is too hot here; let us return to the garden."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 In the garden, the scene had changed since they left \expndtw-4 it. The moonshine was lying on every flower; the birds \expndtw-5 were silent, and the children were asleep in complicated \expndtw-1 groups, among the green groves. Mary and her friend,\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\tx1656\cf1\expndtw-10\fs21 136\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i Johann Ludwig Tieck\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri48\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 however, did not feel fatigue, but walked about in the \expndtw2 warm summer night, in abundant talk, till morning.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 When the day dawned, they refreshed themselves on \expndtw1 fruit and milk, and Mary said: "Suppose we go, by way \expndtw3 of change, to the firs, and see how things look there?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "With all my heart," replied Zerina; "thou wilt see \expndtw-1 our watchmen too, and they will surely please thee; they \expndtw5 are standing up among the trees on the mound." The \expndtw0 two proceeded through the flower-garden by pleasant groves, full of nightingales; then they ascended a vine-\expndtw1 hill; and at last, after long following the windings of a clear brook, arrived at the firs, and the height which bounded the domain. "How does it come," said Mary, \expndtw3 "that we have to walk so far here, when without, the \expndtw1 circuit is so narrow?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "I know not," said her friend; "but so it is."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 They mounted to the dark firs, and a chill wind blew \expndtw-1 from without in their faces; a haze seemed lying far and \expndtw0 wide over the landscape. On the top were many strange \expndtw-2 forms standing: with mealy, dusty faces; their misshapen \expndtw-1 heads not unlike those of white owls; they were clad in \expndtw-4 folded cloaks of shaggy wool; they held umbrellas of curi\-\expndtw-1 ous skins stretched out above them; and they waved and \expndtw1 fanned themselves incessantly with large bat's wings, \expndtw2 which flared out curiously beside the woollen roque-\expndtw1 laures. "I could laugh, yet I am frightened," cried Mary.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "These are our good trusty watchmen," said her play\-\expndtw2 mate; "they stand here and wave their fans, that cold \expndtw-1 anxiety and inexplicable fear may fall on every one that \expndtw1 attempts to approach us. They are covered so, because \expndtw-2 without it is now cold and rainy, which they cannot bear. \expndtw3 But snow, or wind, or cold air, never reaches down to \expndtw-1 us; here is an everlasting spring and summer: yet if these poor people on the top were not frequently relieved, they \expndtw1 would certainly perish."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "But who are you, then?" said Mary, while again \expndtw2 descending to the flowery fragrance; "or have you no \expndtw4 name at all?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li62\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "We are called the Elves," replied the friendly child; \expndtw6 "people talk about us in the Earth, as I have heard."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi197\li62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 They now perceived a mighty bustle on the green. \expndtw2 "The fair Bird is come!" cried the children to them: all\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2957\cf1\expndtw-2\fs22 ELFINLAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-14 137\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri5\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 hastened to the hall. Here, as they approached, young \expndtw1 and old were crowding over the threshold, all shouting \expndtw-1 for joy; and from within resounded a triumphant peal of \expndtw1 music. Having entered, they perceived the vast circuit \expndtw-1 filled with the most varied forms, and all were looking \expndtw-2 upwards to a large Bird with glancing plumage, that was \expndtw2 sweeping slowly round in the dome, and in its stately \expndtw-2 flight describing many a circle. The music sounded more \expndtw0 gaily than before; the colours and lights alternated more \expndtw-1 rapidly. At last the music ceased; and the Bird, with a \expndtw-2 rustling noise, floated down upon a glittering crown that \expndtw1 hung hovering in air under the high window, by which \expndtw-2 the hall was lighted from above. His plumage was purple \expndtw-1 and green, and shining golden streaks played through it; \expndtw-2 on his head there waved a diadem of feathers, so resplen\-\expndtw0 dent that they glanced like jewels. His bill was red, and \expndtw5 his legs of a glancing blue. As he moved, the tints \expndtw1 gleamed through each other, and the eye was charmed \expndtw0 with their radiance. His size was as that of an eagle. But \expndtw-2 now he opened his glittering beak; and sweetest melodies \expndtw-1 came pouring from his moved breast, in finer tones than \expndtw-2 the lovesick nightingale gives forth; still stronger rose the \expndtw0 song, and streamed like floods of Light, so that all, the \expndtw2 very children themselves, were moved by it to tears of \expndtw0 joy and rapture. When he ceased, all bowed before him; \expndtw2 he again flew round the dome in circles, then darted \expndtw6 through the door, and soared into the light heaven, \expndtw1 where he shone far up like a red point, and then soon vanished from their eyes.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Why are ye all so glad?" inquired Mary, bending to \expndtw2 her fair playmate, who seemed smaller than yesterday.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "The King is coming!" said the little one; "many of us \expndtw4 have never seen him, and whithersoever he turns his \expndtw0 face, there is happiness and mirth; we have long looked \expndtw-2 for him, more anxiously than you look for spring when \expndtw1 winter lingers with you; and now he has announced, by \expndtw-1 his fair herald, that he is at hand. This wise and glorious \expndtw3 Bird, that has been sent to us by the King, is called \expndtw2 Phoenix; he dwells far off in Arabia, on a tree, which \expndtw1 there is no other that resembles it on Earth, as in like \expndtw0 manner there is no second Phoenix. When he feels him\-\expndtw7 self grown old, he builds a pile of balm and incense,\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\tx1651\cf1\expndtw-12\fs21 138\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i Johann Ludwig Tieck\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri48\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 kindles it, and dies singing; and then from the fragrant \expndtw0 ashes, soars up the renewed Phoenix with unlessened \expndtw3 beauty. It is seldom he so wings his course that men \expndtw-1 behold him; and when once in centuries this does occur, \expndtw6 they note it in their annals, and expect remarkable \expndtw5 events. But now, my friend, thou and I must part; for \expndtw4 the sight of the King is not permitted thee."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Then the lady with the golden robe came through the \expndtw4 throng, and beckoning Mary to her, led her into a \expndtw-1 sequestered walk. "Thou must leave us, my dear child," \expndtw0 said she; "the King is to hold his court here for twenty \expndtw-2 years, perhaps longer; and fruitfulness and blessings will \expndtw2 spread far over the land, but chiefly here beside us; all \expndtw0 the brooks and rivulets will become more bountiful, all \expndtw2 the fields and gardens richer, the wine more generous, \expndtw-1 the meadows more fertile, and the woods more fresh and \expndtw-2 green; a milder air will blow, no hail shall hurt, no flood shall threaten. Take this ring, and think of us: but beware \expndtw1 of telling anyone of our existence; or we must fly this \expndtw5 land, and thou and all around will lose the happiness \expndtw-1 and blessing of our neighbourhood. Once more, kiss thy \expndtw2 playmate, and farewell." They issued from the walk; Zerina wept, Mary stooped to embrace her, and they \expndtw1 parted. Already she was on the narrow bridge; the cold \expndtw-1 air was blowing on her back from the firs; the little dog \expndtw3 barked with all its might, and rang its little bell: she \expndtw2 looked around, then hastened over, for the darkness of \expndtw-1 the firs, the bleakness of the ruined huts, the shadows of \expndtw1 the twilight, were filling her with terror.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "What a night my parents must have had on my \expndtw3 account!" said she within herself, as she stept on the \expndtw2 green; "and I dare not tell them where I have been, or \expndtw-2 what wonders I have witnessed, nor indeed would they \expndtw3 believe me." Two men passing by saluted her; and as \expndtw5 they went along, she heard them say: "What a pretty \expndtw0 girl! Where can she come from?" With quickened steps \expndtw3 she approached the house: but the trees which were \expndtw1 hanging last night loaded with fruit were now standing \expndtw2 dry and leafless; the house was differently painted, and \expndtw0 a new barn had been built beside it. Mary was amazed, \expndtw-2 and thought she must be dreaming. In this perplexity she \expndtw7 opened the door; and behind the table sat her father,\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2957\cf1\expndtw-3\fs22 ELFINLAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 139\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw10\fs23 between an unknown woman and a stranger youth. \expndtw1 "Good God! Father," cried she, "where is my mother?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Thy mother!" said the woman, with a forecasting \expndtw5 tone, and sprang towards her: "Ha, thou surely canst \expndtw4 not\emdash Yes, indeed, indeed thou art my lost, long-lost \expndtw3 dear, only Mary!" She had recognised her by a little \expndtw-2 brown mole beneath the chin, as well as by her eyes and \expndtw1 shape. All embraced her, all were moved with joy, and \expndtw-1 the parents wept. Mary was astonished that she almost \expndtw1 reached to her father's stature; and she could not under\-\expndtw-2 stand how her mother had become so changed and faded; \expndtw1 she asked the name of the stranger youth. "It is our \expndtw0 neighbour's Andres," said Martin. "How comest thou to \expndtw-2 us again, so unexpectedly, after seven long years? Where \expndtw-1 hast thou been? Why didst thou never send us tidings of \expndtw3 thee?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Seven years!" said Mary, and could not order her \expndtw1 ideas and recollections. "Seven whole years?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Yes, yes," said Andres, laughing, and shaking her \expndtw0 trustfully by the hand; "I have won the race, good Mary; \expndtw2 I was at the pear-tree and back again seven years ago, \expndtw4 and thou, sluggish creature, art but just returned!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 They again asked, they pressed her; but remembering her instruction, she could answer nothing. It was they \expndtw1 themselves chiefly that, by degrees, shaped a story for \expndtw4 her: How, having lost her way, she had been taken up \expndtw1 by a coach, and carried to a strange remote part, where \expndtw-1 she could not give the people any notion of her parents' \expndtw3 residence; how she was conducted to a distant town, \expndtw0 where certain worthy persons brought her up and loved her; how they had lately died, and at length she had \expndtw1 recollected her birthplace, and so returned. "No matter \expndtw-2 how it is!" exclaimed her mother; "enough, that we have \expndtw3 thee again, my little daughter, my own, my all!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Andres waited supper, and Mary could not be at home in anything she saw. The house seemed small and dark; \expndtw2 she felt astonished at her dress, which was clean and \expndtw4 simple, but appeared quite foreign; she looked at the \expndtw-1 ring on her finger, and the gold of it glittered strangely, \expndtw1 enclosing a stone of burning red. To her father's ques\-\expndtw4 tion, she replied that the ring also was a present from \expndtw0 her benefactors.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx1661\cf1\expndtw-13\fs21 140\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i Johann Ludwig Tieck\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri24\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 She was glad when the hour of sleep arrived, and she hastened to her bed. Next morning she felt much more \expndtw4 collected; she had now arranged her thoughts a little, \expndtw0 and could belter stand the questions of the people in the \expndtw-3 village, all of whom came in to bid her welcome. Andres \expndtw-1 was there too with the earliest, active, glad, and service\-\expndtw0 able beyond all others. The blooming maiden of fifteen had made a deep impression on him; he had passed a \expndtw-2 sleepless night. The people of the castle likewise sent for \expndtw0 Mary, and she had once more to tell her story to them, \expndtw3 which was now grown quite familiar to her. The old \expndtw-2 Count and his Lady were surprised at her good-breeding; \expndtw-1 she was modest, but not embarrassed; she made answer \expndtw-2 courteously in good phrases to all their questions; all fear \expndtw3 of noble persons and their equipage had passed away \expndtw2 from her; for when she measured these halls and forms \expndtw3 by the wonders and the high beauty she had seen with \expndtw0 the Elves in their hidden abode, this earthly splendour \expndtw-2 seemed but dim to her, the presence of men was almost \expndtw2 mean. The young lords were charmed with her beauty.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 It was now February. The trees were budding earlier \expndtw-1 than usual; the nightingale had never come so soon; the \expndtw0 spring rose fairer in the land than the oldest men could \expndtw5 recollect it. In every quarter, little brooks gushed out \expndtw-1 to irrigate the pastures and meadows; the hills seemed heaving, the vines rose higher and higher, the fruit-trees \expndtw0 blossomed as they had never done; and a swelling fra\-\expndtw-2 grant blessedness hung suspended heavily in rosy clouds \expndtw3 over the scene. All prospered beyond expectation; no \expndtw-1 rude day, no tempest injured the fruits, the wine flowed \expndtw0 blushing in immense grapes; and the inhabitants of the \expndtw-1 place felt astonished, and were captivated as in a sweet \expndtw2 dream. The next year was like its forerunner; but men \expndtw5 had now become accustomed to the marvellous. In \expndtw7 autumn Mary yielded to the pressing entreaties of \expndtw3 Andres and her parents; she was betrothed to him, and \expndtw2 in winter they were married.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 She often thought with inward longing of her residence \expndtw2 behind the fir-trees; she continued serious and still. \expndtw-1 Beautiful as all that lay around her was, she knew of \expndtw3 something yet more beautiful; and from the remem\-\expndtw5 brance of this, a faint regret attuned her nature to soft\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2962\cf1\expndtw-3\fs22 ELFINLAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-20 141\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri48\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 melancholy. It smote her painfully when her father and \expndtw4 mother talked about the gipsies and vagabonds, that \expndtw0 dwelt in the dark spot of ground. Often she was on the \expndtw-1 point of speaking out in defence of those good beings, whom she knew to be the benefactors of the land; espe\-\expndtw0 cially to Andres, who appeared to take delight in zeal\-\expndtw-2 ously abusing them. Yet still she repressed the word that \expndtw-1 was struggling to escape her bosom. So passed this year; \expndtw1 in the next, she was solaced by a little daughter, whom \expndtw0 she named Elfrida, thinking of the designation of her \expndtw-2 friendly Elves.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi197\li10\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The young people lived with Martin and Brigitta, the \expndtw1 house being large enough for all; and helped their par\-ents in conducting their now extended husbandry. The \expndtw0 little Elfrida soon displayed peculiar faculties and gifts; \expndtw-1 for she could walk at a very early age, and could speak \expndtw1 perfectly before she was a twelvemonth old; and after \expndtw-1 some few years, she had become so wise and clever, and \expndtw2 of such wondrous beauty, that all people regarded her \expndtw-1 with astonishment; and her mother could not keep away \expndtw-2 the thought that her child resembled one of those shining \expndtw0 little ones in the space behind the Firs. Elfrida cared not \expndtw3 to be with other children; but seemed to avoid, with a \expndtw1 sort of horror, their tumultuous amusements; and liked \expndtw2 best to be alone. She would then retire into a corner of \expndtw-1 the garden, and read, or work diligently with her needle; \expndtw-2 often also you might see her sitting, as if deep sunk in thought; or violently walking up and down the alleys, \expndtw1 speaking to herself. Her parents readily allowed her to \expndtw0 have her will in these things, for she was healthy, and \expndtw-2 waxed apace; only her strange sagacious answers and observations often made them anxious. "Such wise chil\-\expndtw4 dren do not grow to age," her grandmother, Brigitta, \expndtw-1 many times observed; "they are too good for this world; \expndtw0 the child, besides, is beautiful beyond nature, and will \expndtw4 never find its proper place on Earth."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The little girl had this peculiarity, that she was very \expndtw2 loath to let herself be served by any one, but endeav\-\expndtw-1 oured to do everything herself. She was almost the earli\-\expndtw-2 est riser in the house; she washed herself carefully, and \expndtw-3 dressed without assistance: at night she was equally care\-\expndtw7 ful; she took special heed to pack up her clothes and\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li14\tx1666\cf1\expndtw-18\fs22 142\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Johann Ludwig Tieck\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri14\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 washed them with her own hands, allowing no one, not even her mother, to meddle with her articles. The mother humoured her in this caprice, not thinking it of any con\-sequence. But what was her astonishment, when, hap\-pening one holiday to insist, regardless of Elfrida's tears and screams, on dressing her out for a visit to the castle, she found upon her breast, suspended by a string, a piece \expndtw0 of gold of a strange form, which she directly recognised \expndtw5 as one of that sort she had seen in such abundance in \expndtw-2 the subterranean vault! The little thing was greatly fright\-\expndtw0 ened; and at last confessed that she had found it in the \expndtw2 garden, and as she liked it much, had kept it carefully: \expndtw1 she at the same time prayed so earnestly and pressingly \expndtw0 to have it back, that Mary fastened it again on its former place, and, full of thoughts, went out with her in silence \expndtw2 to the castle.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Sidewards from the farmhouse lay some offices for the \expndtw3 storing of produce and implements; and behind these \expndtw2 there was a little green, with an old grove, now visited \expndtw-2 by no one as, from the new arrangement of the buildings, \expndtw0 it lay too far from the garden. In this solitude Elfrida \expndtw3 delighted most; and it occurred to nobody to interrupt her here, so that frequently her parents did not see her \expndtw2 for half a day. One afternoon her mother chanced to be in these buildings, seeking for some lost article among the lumber; and she noticed that a beam of light was \expndtw6 coming in, through a chink in the wall. She took a \expndtw5 thought of looking through this aperture, and seeing \expndtw0 what her child was busied with; and it happened that a \expndtw-2 stone was lying loose, and could be pushed aside, so that \expndtw3 she obtained a view right into the grove. Elfrida was \expndtw0 sitting there on a little bench, and beside her the well-\expndtw-2 known Zerina; and the children were playing, and amus\-\expndtw-1 ing one another, in the kindliest unity. The Elf embraced \expndtw-3 her beautiful companion, and said mournfully: "AW dear \expndtw5 little creature, as I sport with thee, so have I sported \expndtw1 with thy mother, when she was a child; but you mortals \expndtw2 so soon grow tall and thoughtful! It is very hard: wert \expndtw5 thou but to be a child as long as I!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Willingly would I do it," said Elfrida; "but they all \expndtw0 say, I shall come to sense, and give over playing alto\-\expndtw2 gether; for I have great gifts, as they think, for growing\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2957\cf1\expndtw-9\fs23 ELFINLAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-22 143\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri34\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 wise. Ah! and then I shall see thee no more, thou dear \expndtw2 Zerina! Yet it is with us as with the fruit-tree flowers: how glorious the blossoming apple-tree, with its red \expndtw1 bursting buds! It looks so stately and broad; and every one, that passes under it, thinks surely something great \expndtw3 will come of it; then the sun grows hot, and the buds come joyfully forth; but the wicked kernel is already \expndtw-2 there, which pushes off and casts away the fair flower's \expndtw1 dress; and now, in pain and waxing, it can do nothing \expndtw-1 more, but must grow to fruit in harvest. An apple, to be sure, is pretty and refreshing; yet nothing to the blossom \expndtw1 of spring. So it is also with us mortals: I am not glad in \expndtw4 the least at growing to be a tall girl. Ah! Could I but \expndtw0 once visit you!"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Since the King is with us," said Zerina, "it is quite \expndtw0 impossible; but I will come to thee, my darling, often, often; and none shall see me either here or there. I will \expndtw1 pass invisible through the air, or fly over to thee like a \expndtw-1 bird. O! we will be much, much together, while thou art \expndtw4 still little. What can I do to please thee?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Thou must like me very dearly," said Elfrida, "as I \expndtw3 like thee in my heart. But come, let us make another \expndtw1 rose."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\i\fs23 Zerina \i0 took the well-known box from her bosom, \expndtw0 threw two grains from it on the ground; and instantly a \expndtw-1 green bush stood before them, with two deep-red roses, \expndtw-2 bending their heads, as if to kiss each other. The children \expndtw0 plucked them smiling, and the bush disappeared. "O that \expndtw2 it would not die so soon!" said Elfrida; "this red child, \expndtw4 this wonder of the Earth!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Give it me here," said the little Elf; then breathed \expndtw7 thrice upon the budding rose, and kissed it thrice. \expndtw-1 "Now," said she, giving back the rose, "it will continue \expndtw2 fresh and blooming till winter."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "I will keep it," said Elfrida, "as an image of thee; I \expndtw-4 will guard it in my little room, and kiss it night and morn\-\expndtw3 ing, as if it were thyself."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "The sun is setting," said the other; "I must go home." \expndtw2 They embraced again, and Zerina vanished.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 In the evening, Mary clasped her child to her breast, \expndtw-2 with a feeling of alarm and veneration. She henceforth \expndtw3 allowed the good little girl more liberty than formerly;\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx1661\cf1\expndtw-12\fs21 144\expndtw0\tab\expndtw3\i Johann Ludwig Tieck\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri38\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 and often calmed her husband when he came to search \expndtw4 for the child; which for some time he was wont to do, \expndtw-1 as her retiredness did not please him; and he feared that, in the end, it might make her silly, or even pervert her \expndtw-2 understanding. The mother often glided to the chink; and \expndtw0 almost always found the bright Elf beside her child, \expndtw2 employed in sport, or in earnest conversation.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Wouldst thou like to fly?" inquired Zerina once.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "O well! How well!" replied Elfrida; and the fairy \expndtw1 clasped her mortal playmate in her arms, and mounted with her from the ground, till they hovered above the \expndtw0 grove. The mother, in alarm, forgot herself, and pushed \expndtw1 out her head in terror to look after them; when Zerina, \expndtw5 from the air, held up her finger, and threatened yet \expndtw3 smiled; then descended with the child, embraced her, \expndtw0 and disappeared. After this, it happened more than once \expndtw-2 that Mary was observed by her; and every time, the shin\-\expndtw-1 ing little creature shook her head, or threatened, yet with friendly looks.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Often, in disputing with her husband, Mary had said \expndtw4 in her zeal: "Thou dost injustice to the poor people in \expndtw2 the hut!" But when Andres pressed her to explain why \expndtw-2 she differed in opinion from the whole village, nay, from \expndtw-1 his Lordship himself; and how she could understand it better than the whole of them, she still broke off embar\-rassed, and became silent. One day, after dinner, Andres \expndtw4 grew more violent than ever; and maintained that, by \expndtw3 one means or another, the crew must be packed away, as a nuisance to the country; when his wife, in anger, \expndtw1 said to him: "Hush! for they are benefactors to thee and \expndtw4 to every one of us."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "Benefactors!" cried the other, in astonishment: \expndtw2 "These rogues and vagabonds?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 In her indignation, she was now at last tempted to \expndtw-1 relate to him, under promise of the strictest secrecy, the \expndtw-2 history of her youth: and as Andres at every word grew \expndtw0 more incredulous, and shook his head in mockery, she \expndtw2 took him by the hand, and led him to the chink; where, \expndtw1 to his amazement, he beheld the glittering Elf sporting with his child, and caressing her in the grove. He knew \expndtw-2 not what to say; an exclamation of astonishment escaped \expndtw0 him, and Zerina raised her eyes. On the instant she grew\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2947\cf1\expndtw-4\fs22 ELFINLAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 145\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri48\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 pale, and trembled violently; not with friendly, but with \expndtw1 indignant looks, she made the sign of threatening, and \expndtw4 then said to Elfrida: "Thou canst not help it, dearest \expndtw5 heart; but they will never learn sense, wise as they \expndtw0 believe themselves." She embraced the little one with \expndtw5 stormy haste; and then, in the shape of a raven, flew \expndtw2 with hoarse cries over the garden, toward the Firs.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 In the evening, the little one was very still; she kissed her rose with tears; Mary felt depressed and frightened, \expndtw4 Andres scarcely spoke. It grew dark. Suddenly there \expndtw1 went a rustling through the trees; birds flew to and fro \expndtw-2 with wild screaming, thunder was heard to roll, the Earth \expndtw5 shook, and tones of lamentation moaned in the air. \expndtw6 Andres and his wife had not courage to rise; they \expndtw1 shrouded themselves within the curtains, and with fear \expndtw-3 and trembling awaited the day. Towards morning, it grew calmer; and all was silent when the Sun, with his cheerful \expndtw2 light, rose over the wood.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Andres dressed himself; and Mary now observed that \expndtw0 the stone of the ring upon her finger had become quite pale. On opening the door, the sun shone clear on their \expndtw-2 faces, but the scene around them they could scarcely rec\-\expndtw2 ognise. The freshness of the wood was gone; the hills \expndtw1 were shrunk, the brooks were flowing languidly with \expndtw4 scanty streams, the sky seemed grey; and when you \expndtw5 turned to the Firs, they were standing there no darker \expndtw4 or more dreary than the other trees. The huts behind \expndtw-1 them were no longer frightful; and several inhabitants of \expndtw3 the village came and told about the fearful night, and \expndtw-1 how they had been across the spot where the gipsies had \expndtw0 lived; how these people must have left the place at last, for their huts were standing empty, and within had quite \expndtw1 a common look, just like the dwellings of other poor \expndtw2 people: some of their household gear was left behind.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Elfrida in secret said to her mother: "I could not sleep \expndtw1 last night; and in my fright at the noise, I was praying \expndtw-1 from the bottom of my heart, when the door suddenly \expndtw2 opened, and my playmate entered to take leave of me. \expndtw-1 She had a travelling pouch slung round her, a hat on her \expndtw2 head, and a large staff in her hand. She was very angry \expndtw0 at thee; since on thy account she had now to suffer the \expndtw-3 severest and most painful punishments, as she had always\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li77\tx1728\cf1\expndtw-12\fs21 146\expndtw0\tab\expndtw5\i Johann Ludwig Tieck\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li72\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs23 been so fond of thee; for all of them, she said, were very \expndtw4 loath to leave this quarter."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi283\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Mary forbade her to speak of this; and now the fer\-ryman came across the river, and told them new won\-\expndtw4 ders. As it was growing dark, a stranger man of large \expndtw-1 size had come to him, and hired his boat till sunrise; and with this condition, that the boatman should remain quiet \expndtw4 in his house, at least should not cross the threshold of \expndtw5 his door. "I was frightened," continued the old man, \expndtw7 "and the strange bargain would not let me sleep. I \expndtw2 slipped softly to the window, and looked towards the river. Great clouds were driving restlessly through the \expndtw-1 sky, and the distant woods were rustling fearfully; it was \expndtw3 as if my cottage shook, and moans and lamentations \expndtw-1 glided round it. On a sudden, I perceived a white stream\-\expndtw0 ing light, that grew broader and broader, like many thou\-\expndtw-2 sands of falling stars; sparkling and waving, it proceeded \expndtw-1 forward from the dark Fir-ground, moved over the fields, \expndtw4 and spread itself along towards the river. Then I heard \expndtw2 a trampling, a jingling, a bustling, and rushing, nearer \expndtw4 and nearer; it went forwards to my boat, and all stept \expndtw0 into it, men and women, as it seemed, and children; and \expndtw1 the tall stranger ferried them over. In the river were by the boat swimming many thousands of glittering forms; \expndtw-2 in the air white clouds and lights were wavering; and all \expndtw0 lamented and bewailed that they must travel forth so far, \expndtw-1 far away, and leave their beloved dwelling. The noise of \expndtw0 the rudder and the water creaked and gurgled between-\expndtw1 whiles, and then suddenly there would be silence. Many a time the boat landed, and went back, and was again \expndtw-1 laden; many heavy casks, too, they took along with them, \expndtw1 which multitudes of horrid-looking little fellows carried \expndtw-1 , and rolled; whether they were devils or goblins, Heaven \expndtw-2 only knows. Then came, in waving brightness, a stately \expndtw-1 freight; it seemed an old man, mounted on a small white \expndtw2 horse, and all were crowding round him. I saw nothing of the horse but its head; for the rest of it was covered \expndtw1 with costly glittering cloths and trappings: on his brow \expndtw4 the old man had a crown, so bright that, as he came \expndtw1 across, I thought the sun was rising there, and the red\-\expndtw3 ness of the dawn glimmering in my eyes. Thus it went \expndtw8 on all night; I at last fell asleep in the tumult, half in\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2957\cf1\expndtw-3\fs21 ELFINLAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-14 147\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri19\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 joy, half in terror. In the morning all was still; but the \expndtw-1 river is, as it were, run off, and I know not how I am to \expndtw4 steer my boat in it now."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 The same year there came a blight; the woods died \expndtw-2 away, the springs ran dry; and the scene, which had once \expndtw-1 been the joy of every traveller, was in autumn standing \expndtw0 waste, naked and bald; scarcely showing here and there, \expndtw-2 in the sea of sand, a spot or two where grass, with a dingy \expndtw-1 greenness, still grew up. The fruit-trees all withered, the vines faded away, and the aspect of the place became so \expndtw2 melancholy, that the Count, with his people, next year left the castle, which in time decayed and fell to ruins.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Elfrida gazed on her rose day and night with deep longing, and thought of her kind playmate; and as it \expndtw3 drooped and withered, so did she also hang her head; \expndtw-1 and before the spring the little maiden had herself faded \expndtw3 away. Mary often stood upon the spot before the hut, \expndtw7 and wept for the happiness that had departed. She \expndtw3 wasted herself away like her child, and in a few years she too was gone. Old Martin, with his son-in-law, \expndtw4 returned to the quarter where he had lived before.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\sl-398\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-6\fs46 DARBY O'GILL AND THE \expndtw13 GOOD PEOPLE\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb245\cf1\expndtw-5\i\fs35 Herminie Templeton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li24\sb1094\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs23 On the road between Kilcuny and Balinderg, Jerry Mur-\expndtw3 taugh, the car-driver, told me his story:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri14\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 Although only one living man of his own free will ever \expndtw-1 went among them there, still, any well-learned person in \expndtw4 Ireland can tell you that the abode of the Good People \expndtw1 is in the hollow heart of the great mountain Sleive-na-\expndtw0 mon. That same one man was Darby O'Gill, a cousin of \expndtw1 my own mother.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 One night the Good People took the eldest of Darby's \expndtw3 three fine pigs. The next week a second pig went the \expndtw-1 same way. The third week not a tiling had Darby left for \expndtw1 the Balinrobe fair. You may aisily think how sore and \expndtw-1 sorry the poor man was, an' how Bridget his wife an' the \expndtw4 childher carried on. The rent was due, and all left was to sell his cow Rosie to pay it. Rosie was the apple of \expndtw-2 his eye; he admired and rayspected the pigs, but he loved \expndtw-3 Rosie.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Worst luck of all was yet to come. On the morning \expndtw1 when Darby went for the cow to bring her into market, \expndtw4 bad scrans to the hoof was there; but in her place only \expndtw0 a wisp of dirty straw to mock him. Millia murther! What \expndtw-2 a howlin' and screechin' and cursin' did Darby bring back \expndtw2 to the house!\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li53\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Now Darby was a bould man, and a desperate man in \expndtw3 his anger, as you soon will see. He shoved his feet into a pair of brogues, clapped his hat on his head, gripped \expndtw1 his stick in his hand.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li53\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Fairy or no fairy, ghost or goblin, livin' or dead, who \expndtw3 took Rosie'll rue this day," he says.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li58\sb77\qc\cf1\expndtw-19\fs23 148\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li480\cf1\expndtw2\fs22 DARBY O'GILL AND THE GOOD PEOPLE   149\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\ri34\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 With those wild words he bolted in the direction of \expndtw-5 Sleive-na-mon.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 All day long he climbed like an ant over the hill, look\-\expndtw-1 ing for a hole or cave through which he could get at the \expndtw-2 prison of Rosie. At times he struck the rocks with his \expndtw1 black-thorn, cryin' out challenge.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Come out, you that took her," he called. "If ye have \expndtw4 the courage of a mouse, ye murtherin' thieves, come \expndtw1 out!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 No one made answer\emdash at laste, not just then. But at \expndtw0 night, as he turned, hungry and footsore, toward home, \expndtw2 who should he meet up with on the crossroads but the \expndtw0 ould fairy doctor, Sheela Maguire. Well known she was \expndtw4 as a spy for the Good People. She spoke up:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Oh, then, you're the foolish, blundherin'-headed man \expndtw2 to be saying what you've said, and doing what you've \expndtw3 done this day, Darby O'Gill," says she.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "What do I care!" says he fiercely. "I'd fight the divil \expndtw1 to-night for my beautiful cow."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Then go into Mrs. Hagan's meadow beyant," says \expndtw0 Sheela, "and wait till the moon is up. By-an'-by ye'll see \expndtw-2 a herd of cows come down from the mountain, and yer \expndtw3 own'll be among them."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "What'll I do then?" asked Darby, his voice threm-\expndtw-2 bling with excitement.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Sorra a hair I care what ye do! But there'll be lads there, and hundreds you won't see, that'll stand no ill \expndtw3 words, Darby O'Gill."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I thank you kindly," says Darby, "and I bid you \expndtw1 good-evening, ma'am." He turned away, leaving her \expndtw0 standing there alone, looking after him; but he was sure \expndtw-1 he heard voices talkin' to her, and laughin' and tittherin' \expndtw0 behind him.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 It was dark night when Darby stretched himself on the ground in Hagan's meadow; the yellow rim of the moon \expndtw0 just tipped the edge of the hills. The time passed mortal \expndtw-2 slow; and it was an hour later when a hundred slow shad\-\expndtw-1 ows, stirring up the mists, crept from the mountain way \expndtw4 toward him. First he must find was Rosie among the \expndtw6 herd. To creep quiet as a cat through the hedge and \expndtw1 reach the first cow was only a minute's work. Then his \expndtw-1 plan\emdash to wait till cock-crow\emdash with all other sober, sensi-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx1723\cf1\expndtw-13\fs21 150\expndtw0\tab\expndtw3\i Herminie Templeton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri43\sb211\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 ble thoughts, went clean out of the lad's head before his \expndtw-2 rage; for, cropping eagerly the long sweet grass, the first \expndtw2 baste he met was Rosie.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 With a leap Darby was behind her, his stick falling \expndtw-2 sharply on her flanks. The ingratitude of that cow almost \expndtw2 broke Darby's heart. Rosie turned fiercely on him, with \expndtw-2 a vicious lunge, her two horns aimed at his breast. There \expndtw3 was no suppler boy in the parish than Darby, and well \expndtw-1 for him it was so, for the mad rush the cow gave would \expndtw0 have caught any man the laste thrifte heavy on his legs, \expndtw3 and ended his days right there.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 As it was, our hayro sprang to one side. As Rosie \expndtw-1 passed, his left hand gripped her tail. When one of the \expndtw0 O'Gills takes hould of a thing, he hangs on like a bull \expndtw3 terrier. Away he went, rushing with her.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Now began a race the like of which was never heard \expndtw0 of before or since. Ten jumps to the second, and a hun\-\expndtw4 dred feet to the jump. Rosie's tail standing straight up \expndtw-1 in the air, firm as an iron bar, and Darby floating straight out behind; a thousand furious fairies flying a short dis\-\expndtw0 tance after, filling the air with wild commands and \expndtw-2 threatenings.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Suddenly the sky opened for a crash of lightning that \expndtw2 shivered the hills, and a roar of thunder that turned out \expndtw-3 of their beds every man, woman, and child in four count\-\expndtw-2 ies. Flash after flash came the lightning, hitting on every \expndtw-1 side of Darby. If it wasn't for fear of hurting Rosie, the \expndtw1 fairies would sartenly have killed Darby. As it was, he \expndtw0 was stiff with fear, afraid to hould on and afraid to lave \expndtw1 go, but flew, waving in the air at Rosie's tail like a flag.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 As the cow turned into the long, narrow valley which \expndtw0 cuts into the east side of the mountain, the Good People \expndtw6 caught up with the pair, and what they didn't do to \expndtw-2 Darby, in the line of sticking pins, pulling whiskers, and \expndtw-1 pinching wouldn't take long to tell. In troth, he was just \expndtw0 about to let go his hould, and take the chances of a fall, \expndtw2 when the hillside opened and\emdash whisk! the cow turned \expndtw0 into the mountain. Darby found himself flying down a \expndtw-2 wide, high passage which grew lighter as he went along. \expndtw3 He heard the opening behind shut like a trap, and his \expndtw6 heart almost stopped beating, for this was the fairies'\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li480\cf1\expndtw2\fs22 DARBY O'GILL AND THE GOOD PEOPLE   151\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\fs23 home in the heart of Sleive-na-mon. He was captured by \expndtw-7 them!\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 When Rosie stopped, so stiff were all Darby's joints, \expndtw5 that he had great trouble loosening himself to come \expndtw0 down. He landed among a lot of angry-faced little peo\-\expndtw4 ple, each no higher than your hand, every one wearing \expndtw3 a green velvet cloak and a red cap.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "We'll take him to the king," says a red-whiskered \expndtw1 wee chap. "What he'll do to the murtherin' spalpeen 'll \expndtw3 be good and plenty!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 With that they marched our bould Darby, a prisoner, down the long passage, which every second grew wider \expndtw2 and lighter, and fuller of little people.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Sometimes, though, he met with human beings like \expndtw-3 himself, only the Mack charm was on them, they having \expndtw2 been stolen at some time by the Good People. He saw \expndtw-1 Lost People there from every parish in Ireland, both \expndtw-2 commoners and gentry. Each was laughing, talking, and \expndtw-1 divarting himself with another. Off to the sides he could \expndtw4 see small cobblers making brogues, tinkers mending \expndtw-2 pans, tailors sewing cloth, smiths hammering horseshoes, \expndtw-1 every one merrily to his trade, making a divarsion out of \expndtw-4 work.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Down near the center of the mountain was a room \expndtw-1 twenty times higher and broader than the biggest church \expndtw3 in the world. As they drew near this room, there arose \expndtw2 the sound of a reel played on bagpipes. The music was \expndtw-2 so bewitching that Darby, who was the gracefullest reel \expndtw0 dancer in all Ireland, could hardly make his feet behave.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 At the room's edge Darby stopped short and caught \expndtw5 his breath, the sight was so entrancing. Set over the \expndtw0 broad floor were thousands and thousands of the Good \expndtw-1 People, facing this way and that, and dancing to a reel; \expndtw4 while on a throne in the middle of the room sat ould \expndtw-2 Brian Conners, King of the Fairies, blowing on the bag\-pipes. The little king, with a goold crown on his head, \expndtw4 wearing a beautiful green velvet coat and red knee \expndtw-2 breeches, sat with his legs crossed, beating time with his \expndtw2 foot to the music.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 There were many from Darby's own parish; and what \expndtw5 was his surprise to see there Maureen McGibney, his\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx1728\cf1\expndtw-13\fs21 152\expndtw0\tab\expndtw3\i Herminie Templeton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri34\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 own wife's sister, whom he had supposed resting dacintly \expndtw3 in her grave in holy ground these three years.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 There she was, gliding back and forth, ferninst a little \expndtw-2 gray-whiskered, round-stomached fairy man, as though \expndtw4 there was never a care nor a sorrow in the world.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 As I told you before, I tell you again, Darby was the \expndtw4 finest reel dancer in all Ireland; and he came from a \expndtw2 family of dancers, though I say it who shouldn't, as he \expndtw-1 was my mother's own cousin. Three things in the world \expndtw-4 banish sorrow\emdash love and whisky and music. So, when the \expndtw3 surprise of it all melted a little, Darby's feet led him in \expndtw0 to the thick of the throng, right under the throne of the \expndtw-1 king, where he flung care to the winds, and put his heart and mind into his two nimble feet. Darby's dancing was \expndtw2 such that purty soon those around stood still to admire.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Backward and forward, sidestep and turn; cross over, \expndtw3 then forward; a hand on his hip and his stick twirling \expndtw-1 free; sidestep and forward; cross over again; bow to his \expndtw4 partner, and hammer the floor.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 It wasn't long till half the dancers crowded around \expndtw-1 admiring, clapping their hands, and shouting encourage\-\expndtw2 ment. The ould king grew so excited that he laid down \expndtw7 the pipes, took up his fiddle, came down from the \expndtw1 throne, and standing ferninst Darby began a finer tune \expndtw3 than the first.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The dancing lasted a whole hour, no one speaking a \expndtw2 word except to cry out, "Foot it, ye divil!" "Aisy now, \expndtw0 he's threading on flowers!" "More power to you!" "Play \expndtw3 faster, king!" "Hooroo! hooroo! hooray!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Then the king stopped and said:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Well, that bates Banagher, and Banagher bates the \expndtw3 world! Who are you, and how came you here?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Then Darby up and tould the whole story.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 When he had finished, the king looked sayrious. "I'm glad you came, an' I'm sorry you came," he says. "If we \expndtw0 had put our charm on you outside to bring you in, you'd \expndtw3 never die till the end of the world, when we here must \expndtw0 all go to hell. But," he added quickly, "there's no use in worrying about that now. That's nayther here nor there! \expndtw2 Those willing to come with us can't come at all, at all; \expndtw-4 and here you are of your own free act and will. Howsom-\expndtw5 ever, you're here, and we daren't let you go outside to\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li485\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 DARBY O'GILL AND THE GOOD PEOPLE   153\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri48\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 tell others of what you have seen, and so give us a bad \expndtw-3 name about\emdash about taking things, you know. We'll make \expndtw0 you as comfortable as we can; and so you won't worry about Bridget and the childher, I'll have a goold sover\-\expndtw2 eign left with them every day of their lives. But I wish \expndtw-1 we had the comeither on you," he says, with a sigh, "for \expndtw3 it's aisy to see you're great company. Now come up to \expndtw2 my place an' have a noggin of punch for friendship's sake," says he.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 That's how Darby O'Gill began his six months' stay with the Good People. Not a thing was left undone to \expndtw0 make Darby contented and happy. A civiler people than \expndtw2 the Good People he never met. At first he couldn't get \expndtw0 over saying, "God keep all here," and "God save you \expndtw4 kindly," and things like that, which was like burning \expndtw3 them with a hot iron.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 If it weren't for Maureen McGibney, Darby would be \expndtw0 in Sleive-na-mon at this hour. Sure she was always the \expndtw2 wise girl, ready with her crafty plans and warnings. On \expndtw-2 a day when they two were sitting alone together, she says \expndtw1 to him:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "Darby, dear," says she, "it isn't right for a dacint \expndtw3 man of family to be spending his days cavortin', and \expndtw-1 idlin', and fillin' the hours with sport and nonsense. We \expndtw3 must get you out of here; for what is a sovereign a day \expndtw4 to compare with the care and protection of a father?" \expndtw-2 she says.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Thrue for ye!" moaned Darby, "and my heart is just \expndtw1 splittin' for a sight of Bridget an' the childher. Bad luck to the day I set so much store on a dirty, ongrateful, \expndtw0 threacherous cow!"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "I know well how you feel," says Maureen, "for I'd \expndtw0 give the whole world to say three words to Bob Broder-\expndtw4 ick, that ye tell me that out of grief for me has never \expndtw-1 kept company with any other girl till this day. But that'll \expndtw6 never be," she says, "because I must stop here till the\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li48\sl-221\slmult0\tlhyph\tx4277\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Day of Judgment, and then I must go to\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2 " says she,\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li48\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 beginning to cry, "but if you get out, you'll bear a mes\-\expndtw3 sage to Bob for me, maybe?" she says.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "It's aisy to talk about going out, but how can it be \expndtw3 done?" asked Darby.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "There's a way," says Maureen, wiping her big gray\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx1728\cf1\expndtw-17\fs22 154\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-2\i Herminie Templeton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri29\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 eyes, "but it may take years. First, you must know that \expndtw-3 the Good People can never put their charm on any one \expndtw-6 who is willing to come with them. That's why you came \expndtw-4 safe. Then, again, they can't work harm in the daylight, \expndtw-3 and after cockcrow any mortal eye can see them plain; \expndtw-5 nor can they harm any one who has a sprig of holly, nor \expndtw-6 pass over a leaf or twig of holly, because that's Christmas \expndtw-4 bloom. Well, there's a certain evil word for a charm that \expndtw-2 opens the side of the mountain, and I will try to find it \expndtw1 out for you. Without that word all the armies of the world couldn't get out or in. But you must be patient \expndtw-1 and wise, and wait."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs24 "I will so, with the help of God," says Darby.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 At these words, Maureen gave a terrible screech.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "Cruel man!" she cried, "don't you know that to say \expndtw-4 pious words to one of the Good People, or to one under \expndtw-1 their black charm, is like cutting him with a knife?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 The next night she came to Darby again.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "Watch yerself now," she says, "for to-night they're \expndtw-5 goin' to lave the door of the mountain open, to thry you; and if you stir two steps outside they'll put the comeither \expndtw-2 on you," she says.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 Sure enough, when Darby took his walk down the pas\-\expndtw-1 sage, after supper, as he did every night, there the side \expndtw-5 of the mountain lay wide open and no one in sight. The \expndtw0 temptation to make one rush was great; but he only \expndtw-6 looked out a minute, and went whistling back down the \expndtw-4 passage, knowing well that a hundred hidden eyes were \expndtw0 on nun the while. For a dozen nights after it was the \expndtw-8 same.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 At another time Maureen said:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "The king himself is going to thry you hard the day, \expndtw1 so beware!" She had no sooner said the words than \expndtw-1 Darby was called for, and went up to the king.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "Darby, my sowl," says the king, in a sootherin' way, \expndtw-6 "have this noggin of punch. A betther never was brewed; \expndtw-2 it's the last we'll have for many a day. I'm going to set \expndtw1 you free, Darby O'Gill, that's what I am."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "Why, king," says Darby, putting on a mournful face, \expndtw-1 "how have I offended ye?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "No offense at all," says the king, "only we're depriv\-\expndtw-2 ing you."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li485\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 DARBY O'GILL AND THE GOOD PEOPLE   155\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri43\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "No depravity in life!" says Darby. "I have lashins \expndtw0 and lavings to ate and to drink, and nothing but fun an' \expndtw2 divarsion all day long. Out in the world it was nothing \expndtw-1 but work and throuble and sickness, disappointment and \expndtw4 care."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "But Bridget and the childher?" says the king, giving \expndtw2 him a sharp look out of half-shut eyes.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Oh, as for that, king," says Darby, "it's aisier for a \expndtw0 widow to get a husband, or for orphans to find a father, \expndtw4 than it is for them to pick up a sovereign a day."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 The king looked mighty satisfied and smoked for a \expndtw0 while without a word.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Would you mind going out an evenin' now and then, \expndtw4 helpin' the boys to mind the cows?" he asked at last.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw8\fs23 Darby feared to thrust himself outside in their \expndtw-5 company.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Well, I'll tell ye how it is," replied my brave Darby. \expndtw1 "Some of the neighbors might see me, and spread the \expndtw0 report on me that I'm with the fairies, and that'd disgrace \expndtw3 Bridget and the childher," he says.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 The king knocked the ashes from his pipe. "You're a \expndtw1 wise man besides being the hoight of good company," \expndtw2 says he, "and it's sorry I am you didn't take me at my \expndtw3 word; for then we would have you always, at laste till \expndtw-1 the Day of Judgment, when\emdash but that's nayther here nor \expndtw0 there! Howsomever, we'll bother you about it no more."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 From that day they thrated him as one of their own.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 It was one day five months after that Maureen plucked \expndtw4 Darby by the coat and led him off to a lonely spot.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "I've got the word," she says.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Have you, faith! What is it?" says Darby, all of a \expndtw-1 thremble.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li43\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Then she whispered a word so blasphemous, so irreli\-\expndtw1 gious, that Darby blessed himself. When Maureen saw \expndtw2 him making the sign, she fell down in a fit, the holy \expndtw3 emblem hurt her so, poor child.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Three hours after this me bould Darby was sitting at \expndtw-1 his own fireside talking to Bridget and the childher. The neighbors were hurrying to him, down every road and through every field, carrying armfuls of holly bushes, as \expndtw5 he had sent word for them to do. He knew well he'd \expndtw0 have fierce and savage visitors before morning.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\tx1723\cf1\expndtw-12\fs21 156\expndtw0\tab\expndtw3\i Herminie Templeton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri62\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 After they had come with the holly, he had them make a circle of it so thick around the house that a fly couldn't walk through without touching a twig or a leaf. But that \expndtw1 was not all.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 You'll know what a wise girl and what a crafty girl \expndtw-2 that Maureen was when you hear what the neighbors did \expndtw0 next. They made a second ring of holly outside the first, \expndtw1 so that the house sat in two great wreaths, one wreath \expndtw-1 around the other. The outside ring was much the bigger, and left a good space between it and the first, with room \expndtw1 for ever so many people to stand there. It was like the \expndtw4 inner ring, except for a little gate, left open as though \expndtw2 by accident, where the fairies could walk in.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 But it wasn't an accident at all, only the wise plan of \expndtw5 Maureen's; for nearby this little gap, in the outside \expndtw-2 wreath, lay a sprig of holly with a bit of twine tied to it. \expndtw1 Then the twine ran along up to Darby's house, and in \expndtw-2 through the window, where its end lay convaynient to his \expndtw5 hand. A little pull on the twine would drag the stray \expndtw2 piece of holly into the gap, and close tight the outside \expndtw-5 ring.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 It was a trap, you see. When the fairies walked in \expndtw0 through the gap, the twine was to be pulled, and so they \expndtw5 were to be made prisoners between the two rings of \expndtw0 holly. They couldn't get into Darby's house, because the \expndtw-1 circle of holly nearest the house was so tight that a fly couldn't get through without touching the blessed tree or \expndtw4 its wood. Likewise, when the gap in the outer wreath \expndtw0 was closed, they couldn't get out again. Well, anyway, \expndtw1 these things were hardly finished and fixed, when the \expndtw-3 dusky brown of the hills warned the neighbors of twilight, \expndtw1 and they scurried like frightened rabbits to their homes.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Only one amongst them all had courage to sit inside \expndtw-1 Darby's house waiting the dreadful visitors, and that one \expndtw6 was Bob Broderick. What vengeance was in store \expndtw1 couldn't be guessed at all, at all, only it was sure that it \expndtw0 was to be more terrible than any yet wreaked on mortal \expndtw-3 man.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Not in Darby's house alone was the terror, for in their \expndtw-2 anger the Good People might lay waste the whole parish. \expndtw0 The roads and fields were empty and silent in the dark\-\expndtw9 ness. Not a window glimmered with light for miles\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li485\cf1\expndtw3\fs22 DARBY O'GILL AND THE GOOD PEOPLE   157\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri43\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 around. Many a blaggard who hadn't said a prayer for \expndtw1 years was now down on his marrow bones among the \expndtw-1 dacint members of his family, thumping his craw, and \expndtw2 roaring his Pather and Aves.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 In Darby's quiet house, against which the cunning, the \expndtw5 power, and the fury of the Good People would first \expndtw4 break, you can't think of half the suffering of Bridget \expndtw3 and the childher, as they lay huddled together on the \expndtw6 settle bed; nor of the sthrain on Bob and Darby, who \expndtw1 sat smoking their dudeens and whispering anxiously \expndtw0 together.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 For some rayson or other the Good People were long \expndtw0 in coming. Ten o'clock struck, then eleven, afther that \expndtw3 twelve, and not a sound from the outside. The silence \expndtw-3 and the no sign of any kind had them all just about crazy, \expndtw4 when suddenly there fell a sharp rap on the door.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Millia murther," whispered Darby, "we're in for it. \expndtw3 They've crossed the two rings of holly, and are at the \expndtw2 door itself."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The childher begun to cry and Bridget said her prayers \expndtw4 out loud; but no one answered the knock.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "Rap, rap, rap," on the door, then a pause.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "God save all here!" cried a queer voice from the \expndtw-2 outside.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 Now no fairy would say, "God save all here," so \expndtw1 Darby took heart and opened the door. Who should be \expndtw0 standing there but Sheelah Maguire, a spy for the Good \expndtw-1 People. So angry were Darby and Bob that they snatched \expndtw5 her within the threshold, and before she knew it they \expndtw1 had her tied hand and foot, wound a cloth around her mouth, and rouled her under the bed. Within the minute \expndtw-2 a thousand rustling voices sprung from outside. Through the window, in the clear moonlight, Darby marked weeds \expndtw-1 and grass being trampled by invisible feet, beyond the \expndtw1 farthest ring of holly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Suddenly broke a great cry. The gap in the first ring \expndtw-2 was found. Signs were plainly seen of uncountable feet \expndtw0 rushing through, and spreading about the nearer wreath. \expndtw-1 Afther that a howl of madness from the little men and \expndtw2 women. Darby had pulled his twine and the trap was \expndtw3 closed, with five thousand of the Good People entirely \expndtw0 at his mercy.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1718\cf1\expndtw-17\fs22 158\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-2\i Herminie Templeton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri34\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Princes, princesses, dukes, dukesses, earls, earlesses, \expndtw-2 and all the quality of Sleive-na-mon were prisoners. Not \expndtw-1 more than a dozen of the last to come escaped, and they \expndtw2 flew back to tell the king.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 For an hour they raged. All the bad names ever called to mortal man were given free, but Darby said never a \expndtw2 word. "Pick-pocket," "sheep stayler," "murtherin' thafe \expndtw3 of a blaggard," were the softest words trun at him.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 By an' by, howsomever, as it begun to grow near to \expndtw-3 cock-crow, their talk grew a great dale civiler. Then came \expndtw1 beggin,' pladin', promisin', and enthratin', but the doors \expndtw2 of the house still stayed shut an' its windows down.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Purty soon Darby's old rooster, Terry, came down from his perch, yawned, an' flapped his wings a few \expndtw0 times. At that the terror and the screechin' of the Good \expndtw3 People would have melted the heart of a stone.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 All of a sudden a fine, clear voice rose from beyant \expndtw2 the crowd. The king had come. The other fairies grew \expndtw-2 still, listening.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Ye murtherin' thafe of the world," says the king \expndtw3 grandly, "what are ye doin' wid my people?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Keep a civil tongue in yer head, Brian Connor," says \expndtw4 Darby, sticking his head out the window, "for I'm as \expndtw3 good a man as you, any day," says Darby.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 At that minute Terry, the cock, flapped his wings and \expndtw1 crowed. In a flash there sprang into full view the crowd \expndtw-3 of Good People\emdash dukes, earls, princes, quality, and com\-\expndtw1 moners, with their ladies, jammed thick together about \expndtw-2 the house; every one of them with his head thrown back \expndtw1 bawling and crying, and tears as big as pigeons' eggs \expndtw0 rouling down his cheeks.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 A few feet away, on a straw pile in the barnyard, stood \expndtw1 the king, his goold crown tilted on the side of his head, \expndtw0 his long green cloak about him, and his rod in his hand, \expndtw2 but thremblin' all over.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 In the middle of the crowd, but towering high above \expndtw-3 them all, stood Maureen McGibney in her cloak of green an' goold, her purty brown hair fallin' down on her shoul\-\expndtw-2 ders, an' she\emdash the crafty villain\emdash cryin' an' bawlin', an' \expndtw3 abusin' Darby, with the best of them.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "What'll you have an' let them go?" says the king.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li485\cf1\expndtw-4\fs22 DARBY O'GILL AND THE GOOD PEOPLE   159\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri29\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "First an' foremost," says Darby, "take yer spell \i off \expndtw5\i0 that slip of a girl there, an' send her into the house."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 In a second Maureen was standing inside the door, \expndtw0 her both arms about Bob's neck, and her head on his \expndtw-2 collarbone.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 What they said to aich other, and what they done in \expndtw2 the way of embracin' an' kissin' an' cryin' I won't take \expndtw1 time in telling you.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Next," says Darby, "send back Rosie and the pigs."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "I expected that," says the king. And at those words \expndtw-2 they saw a black bunch coming through the air; in a few \expndtw1 seconds Rosie and the three pigs walked into the stable.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Now," says Darby, "promise in the name of Ould \expndtw5 Nick" ('tis by him the Good People swear) "never to \expndtw3 moil nor meddle again with any one or anything from \expndtw2 this parish."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li19\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 The king was fair put out by this. Howsomever, he \expndtw-1 said at last, "You ongrateful scoundhrel, in the name of \expndtw3 Ould Nick, I promise."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "So far, so good," says Darby; "but the worst is yet \expndtw2 to come. Now you must ralayse from your spell every \expndtw-2 soul you've stole from this parish; and besides, you must \expndtw3 send me ten thousand pounds in goold."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Well, the king gave a roar of anger that was heard in \expndtw2 the next barony.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Ye high-handed, hard-hearted robber," he says, "I'll \expndtw1 never consent!" he says.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li24\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Plase yerself," says Darby. "I see Father Cassidy \expndtw4 comin' down the hedge," he says, "an' he has a prayer for ye all in his book that'll burn ye up like wisps of \expndtw3 sthraw ef he ever catches ye here," says Darby.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 With that the roaring and bawling was pitiful to hear, and in a few minutes a bag with ten thousand goold sov\-ereigns in it was trun at Darby's threshold; and fifty peo\-\expndtw1 ple, young an' some of them ould, flew over an' stood \expndtw-1 beside the king. Some of them had spent years with the \expndtw3 fairies. Their relatives thought them dead an' buried. They were the Lost Ones from that parish.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 With that Darby pulled the bit of twine again, opening \expndtw3 the trap, and it wasn't long until every fairy was gone.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The green coat of the last one was hardly out of sight \expndtw-1 when, sure enough, who should come up but Father Cas-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx1723\cf1\expndtw-12\fs21 160\expndtw0\tab\expndtw3\i Herminie Templeton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri38\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 sidy, his book in his hand. He looked at the fifty people who had been with the fairies standin' there\emdash the poor \expndtw2 crathures\emdash thremblin' an' wondherin', an' afeared to go to their homes.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Darby tould him what had happened.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Ye foolish man," says the priest, "you could have got \expndtw1 out every poor prisoner that's locked in Sleive-na-mon, \expndtw3 let alone those from this parish."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Would yer Reverence have me let out the Corko-\expndtw-1 niens, the Connaught men, and the Fardowns, I ask ye?" \expndtw0 he says hotly. "When Mrs. Malowney there goes home and finds that Tim has married the Widow Hogan, ye'll \expndtw1 say I let out too many, even of this parish, I'm thinkin'."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "But," says the priest, "ye might have got ten thou\-\expndtw3 sand pounds for aich of us."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "If aich had ten thousand pounds, what comfort would \expndtw-3 I have in being rich?" asked Darby again. "To enjoy well \expndtw1 being rich, there should be plenty of poor," says Darby.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "God forgive ye, ye selfish man!" says Father Cassidy.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "There's another rayson besides," says Darby. "I \expndtw3 never got betther nor friendlier thratement than I had \expndtw-2 from the Good People. An' the divil a hair of their heads \expndtw5 I'd hurt more than need be," he says.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Some way or other the king heard of this saying, an' \expndtw-3 was so mightily pleased that next night a jug of the finest \expndtw3 poteen was left at Darby's door.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 After that, indade, many's the winter night, when the \expndtw-3 snow lay so heavy that no neighbor was stirrin', and when \expndtw1 Bridget and the childher were in bed, Darby sat by the \expndtw0 fire, a noggin of hot punch in his hand, argying an' get\-\expndtw-3 ting news of the whole world. A little man, with a goold \expndtw2 crown on his head, a green cloak on his back, and one \expndtw6 foot thrown over the other, sat ferninst him by the \expndtw0 hearth.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li19\cf1\expndtw2\fs45 NO MAN'S LAND\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb192\cf1\expndtw-1\i\fs36 John Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li878\sb1507\cf1\expndtw5\b\fs17 CHAPTER I. THE SHIELING OF FARAWA\cf0\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li29\ri14\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 It was with a light heart and a pleasing consciousness of \expndtw0 holiday that I set out from the inn at Allermuir to tramp \expndtw1 my fifteen miles into the unknown. I walked slowly, for I carried my equipment on my back\emdash my basket, fly-\expndtw2 books and rods, my plaid of Grant tartan (for I boast \expndtw1 myself a distant kinsman of that house), and my great \expndtw2 staff, which had tried ere then the front of the steeper Alps. A small valise with books and some changes of \expndtw0 linen clothing had been sent on ahead in the shepherd's \expndtw-2 own hands. It was yet early April, and before me lay four \expndtw-4 weeks of freedom\emdash twenty-eight blessed days in which to \expndtw0 take fish and smoke the pipe of idleness. The Lent term \expndtw-1 had pulled me down, a week of modest enjoyment there \expndtw0 after in town had finished the work; and I drank in the \expndtw-1 sharp moorish air like a thirsty man who has been for-\expndtw0 wandered among deserts.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 I am a man of varied tastes and a score of interests. \expndtw-2 As an undergraduate I had been filled with the old mania \expndtw5 for the complete life. I distinguished myself in the \expndtw-2 Schools, rowed in my college eight, and reached the dis\-\expndtw-1 tinction of practising for three weeks in the Trials. I had \expndtw3 dabbled in a score of learned activities, and when the \expndtw-1 time came that I won the inevitable St Chad's fellowship \expndtw0 on my chaotic acquirements, and I found myself com\-pelled to select if I would pursue a scholar's life, I had \expndtw1 some toil in finding my vocation. In the end I resolved \expndtw0 that the ancient life of the North, of the Celts and the \expndtw2 Northmen and the unknown Pictish tribes, held for me\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li67\sb77\qc\cf1\expndtw-27\fs23 161\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx2035\cf1\expndtw-14\fs23 162\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4\i John Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\ri38\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 the chief fascination. I had acquired a smattering of \expndtw2 Gaelic, having been brought up as a boy in Lochaber, \expndtw1 and now I set myself to increase my store of languages. \expndtw-1 I mastered Erse and Icelandic, and my first book\emdash a monograph on the probable Celtic elements in the Eddie \expndtw-3 songs\emdash brought me the praise of scholars and the deputy-\expndtw-1 professor's chair of Northern Antiquities. So much for \expndtw5 Oxford. My vacations had been spent mainly in the \expndtw0 North\emdash in Ireland, Scotland, and the Isles, in Scandina\-\expndtw-1 via and Iceland, once even in the far limits of Finland. I \expndtw5 was a keen sportsman of a sort, an old-experienced \expndtw2 fisher, a fair shot with gun and rifle, and in my hillcraft \expndtw-2 I might well stand comparison with most men. April has \expndtw0 ever seemed to me the finest season of the year even in \expndtw2 our cold northern altitudes, and the memory of many \expndtw-1 bright Aprils had brought me up from the South on the \expndtw3 night before to Allerfoot, whence a dogcart had taken \expndtw1 me up Glen Aller to the inn at Allermuir; and now the \expndtw2 same desire had set me on the heather with my face to \expndtw0 the cold brown hills.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 You are to picture a sort of plateau, benty and rock-strewn, running ridge-wise above a chain of little peaty \expndtw2 lochs and a vast tract of inexorable bog. In a mile the \expndtw1 ridge ceased in a shoulder of hill, and over this lay the \expndtw-1 head of another glen, with the same doleful accompani\-\expndtw-2 ment of sunless lochs, mosses, and a shining and resolute \expndtw1 water. East and west and north, in every direction save the south, rose walls of gashed and serrated hills. It was \expndtw3 a grey day with blinks of sun, and when a ray chanced \expndtw-1 to fall on one of the great dark faces, lines of light and \expndtw0 colour sprang into being which told of mica and granite. I was in high spirits, as on the eve of holiday; I had \expndtw-2 breakfasted excellently on eggs and salmon-steaks; I had \expndtw-1 no cares to speak of, and my prospects were not uninvit\-\expndtw2 ing. But in spite of myself the landscape began to take me in thrall and crush me. The silent vanished peoples \expndtw0 of the hills seemed to be stirring; dark primeval faces \expndtw-1 seemed to stare at me from behind boulders and jags of rock. The place was so still, so free from the cheerful \expndtw-2 clamour of nesting birds, that it seemed a \i temenos \i0 sacred \expndtw0 to some old-world god. At my feet the lochs lapped \expndtw3 ceaselessly; but the waters were so dark that one could\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3211\cf1\expndtw-1\fs22 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 163\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri43\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 not see bottom a foot from the edge. On my right the \expndtw1 links of green told of snake-like mires waiting to crush \expndtw4 the unwary wanderer. It seemed to me for the moment \expndtw5 a land of death, where the tongues of the dead cried \expndtw0 aloud for recognition.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 My whole morning's walk was full of such fancies. I lit \expndtw2 a pipe to cheer me, but the things would not be got rid \expndtw0 of. I thought of the Gaels who had held those fastnesses; \expndtw4 I thought of the Britons before them, who yielded to \expndtw0 their- advent. They were all strong peoples in their day, \expndtw2 and now they had gone the way of the earth. They had \expndtw-1 left their mark on the levels of the glens and on the more habitable uplands, both in names and in actual forts, and graves where men might still dig curios. But the hills\emdash  \expndtw2 that black stony amphitheatre before me\emdash it seemed strange that the hills bore no traces of them. And then \expndtw5 with some uneasiness I reflected on that older and \expndtw1 stranger race who were said to have held the hill-tops. \expndtw-2 The Picts, the Picti\emdash what in the name of goodness were \expndtw-1 they? They had troubled me in all my studies, a sort of \expndtw0 blank wall to put an end to speculation. We knew noth\-\expndtw-2 ing of them save certain strange names which men called \expndtw-3 Pictish, the names of those hills in front of me\emdash the Mun-\expndtw1 eraw, the Yirnie, the Calmarton. They were the \i corpus \expndtw-2 vile \i0 for learned experiment; but Heaven alone knew what dark abyss of savagery once yawned in the midst of the \expndtw-1 desert.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 And then I remembered the crazy theories of a pupil \expndtw3 of mine at St Chad's, the son of a small landowner on \expndtw2 the Aller, a young gentleman who had spent his sub\-stance too freely at Oxford, and was now dreeing his \expndtw-1 weird in the Backwoods. He had been no scholar; but a \expndtw-2 certain imagination marked all his doings, and of a Sun\-\expndtw2 day night he would come and talk to me of the North. The Picts were his special subject, and his ideas were mad. "Listen to me," he would say, when I had mixed \expndtw1 him toddy and given him one of my cigars; "I believe \expndtw0 there are traces\emdash ay, and more than traces\emdash of an old \expndtw1 culture lurking in those hills and waiting to be discov\-\expndtw0 ered. We never hear of the Picts being driven from the \expndtw3 hills. The Britons drove them from the lowlands, the \expndtw1 Gaels from Ireland did the same for the Britons; but the\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx2035\cf1\expndtw-17\fs22 164\expndtw0\tab\expndtw1\i John Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri34\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 hills were left unmolested. We hear of no one going near \expndtw-1 them except outlaws and tinklers. And in that very place \expndtw0 you have the strangest mythology. Take the story of the Brownie. What is that but the story of a little swart man \expndtw2 of uncommon strength and cleverness, who does good \expndtw0 and ill indiscriminately, and then disappears. There are \expndtw1 many scholars, as you yourself confess, who think that \expndtw-1 the origin of the Brownie was in some mad belief in the \expndtw0 old race of the Picts, which still survived somewhere in \expndtw-1 the hills. And do we not hear of the Brownie in authentic \expndtw0 records right down to the year 1756? After that, when \expndtw-2 people grew more incredulous, it is natural that the belief \expndtw0 should have begun to die out; but I do not see why stray \expndtw2 traces should not have survived till late."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li19\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Do you not see what that means?" I had said in mock \expndtw1 gravity. "Those same hills are, if anything, less known \expndtw3 now than they were a hundred years ago. Why should \expndtw2 not your Picts or Brownies be living to this day?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "Why not, indeed?" he had rejoined, in all ser\-\expndtw-4 iousness.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 I laughed, and he went to his rooms and returned with \expndtw-1 a large leather-bound book. It was lettered, in the rococo \expndtw11 style of a young man's taste, "Glimpses of the \expndtw0 Unknown," and some of the said glimpses he proceeded \expndtw3 to impart to me. It was not pleasant reading; indeed, I \expndtw0 had rarely heard anything so well fitted to shatter sensi\-\expndtw-1 tive nerves. The early part consisted of folk-tales and \expndtw-4 folk-sayings, some of them wholly obscure, some of them \expndtw2 with a glint of meaning, but all of them with some hint \expndtw-1 of a mystery in the hills. I heard the Brownie story in \expndtw1 countless versions. Now the thing was a friendly little \expndtw2 man, who wore grey breeches and lived on brose; now \expndtw-2 he was a twisted being, the sight of which made the ewes \expndtw2 miscarry in the lambing-time. But the second part was \expndtw0 the stranger, for it was made up of actual tales, most of them with date and place appended. It was a most Bed\-\expndtw-1 lamite catalogue of horrors, which, if true, made the \expndtw2 wholesome moors a place instinct with tragedy. Some \expndtw-1 told of children carried away from villages, even from towns, on the verge of the uplands. In almost every case \expndtw-2 they were girls, and the strange fact was their utter disap\-\expndtw2 pearance. Two little girls would be coming home from\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3206\cf1\expndtw-2\fs22 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 165\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri14\sb216\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 school, would be seen last by a neighbour just where the \expndtw4 road crossed a patch of heath or entered a wood, and \expndtw2 then\emdash no human eye ever saw them again. Children's \expndtw1 cries had startled outlying shepherds in the night, and \expndtw0 when they had rushed to the door they could hear noth\-\expndtw-2 ing but the night wind. The instances of such disappear\-\expndtw-1 ances were not very common\emdash perhaps once in twenty years\emdash but they were confined to this one tract of coun\-\expndtw2 try, and came in a sort of fixed progression from the \expndtw0 middle of last century, when the record began. But this \expndtw-1 was only one side of the history. The latter part was all \expndtw-3 devoted to a chronicle of crimes which had gone unpun\-\expndtw-1 ished, seeing that no hand had ever been traced. The list was fuller in last century; in the earlier years of the pres\-\expndtw1 ent it had dwindled; then came a revival about the 'fif\-\expndtw0 ties; and now again in our own time it had sunk low. At \expndtw4 the little cottage of Auchterbrean, on the roadside in \expndtw0 Glen Aller, a labourer's wife had been found pierced to \expndtw4 the heart. It was thought to be a case of a woman's \expndtw-2 jealousy, and her neighbour was accused, convicted, and \expndtw0 hanged. The woman, to be sure, denied the charge with \expndtw-2 her last breath; but circumstantial evidence seemed suffi\-\expndtw-1 ciently strong against her. Yet some people in the glen believed her guiltless. In particular, the carrier who had \expndtw2 found the dead woman declared that the way in which her neighbour received the news was a sufficient proof \expndtw-2 of innocence; and the doctor who was first summoned professed himself unable to tell with what instrument the wound had been given. But this was all before the days of \expndtw-1 expert evidence, so the woman had been hanged without scruple. Then there had been another story of peculiar \expndtw0 horror, telling of the death of an old man at some little \expndtw-2 lonely shieling called Carrickfey. But at this point I had \expndtw0 risen in protest, and made to drive the young idiot from \expndtw-1 my room.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\sb5\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "It was my grandfather who collected most of them," \expndtw3 he said. "He had theories,* but people called him mad,\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li38\sb293\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs19 *In the light of subsequent events I have jotted down the materials \expndtw1 to which I refer. The last authentic record of the Brownie is in the \expndtw2 narrative of the shepherd of Clachlands, taken down towards the \expndtw1 close of last century by the Reverend Mr. Gillespie, minister of \expndtw0 Allerkirk, and included by him in his "Songs and Legends of Glen \expndtw1 Aller." The authorities on the strange carrying-away of children are\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2030\cf1\expndtw-15\fs22 166\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i John Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri53\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\tlhyph\tx2914\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 so he was wise enough to hold his tongue. My father\line\expndtw0 declares the whole thing mania; but I rescued the book,\line had it bound, and added to the collection. It is a queer\line hobby; but, as I say, I have theories, and there are more\line\expndtw2 things in heaven and earth\expndtw0\tab "\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 But at this he heard a friend's voice in the Quad., and \expndtw1 dived out, leaving the \i banal \i0 quotation unfinished.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 Strange though it may seem, this madness kept coming \expndtw-2 back to me as I crossed the last few miles of moor. I was \expndtw1 now on a rough tableland, the watershed between two \expndtw-1 lochs, and beyond and above me rose the stony backs of \expndtw-2 the hills. The burns fell down in a chaos of granite boul\-\expndtw3 ders, and huge slabs of grey stone lay flat and tumbled \expndtw2 in the heather. The full waters looked prosperously for \expndtw-1 my fishing, and I began to forget all fancies in anticipa\-\expndtw2 tion of sport.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Then suddenly in a hollow of land I came on a ruined \expndtw4 cottage. It had been a very small place, but the walls \expndtw-2 were still half-erect, and the little moorland garden was \expndtw1 outlined on the turf. A lonely apple-tree, twisted and \expndtw2 gnarled with winds, stood in the midst.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 From higher up on the hill I heard a loud roar, and I \expndtw0 knew my excellent friend the shepherd of Farawa, who \expndtw1 had come thus far to meet me. He greeted me with the \expndtw-4 boisterous embarrassment which was his way of prefacing \expndtw-2 hospitality. A grave reserved man at other times, on such \expndtw1 occasions he thought it proper to relapse into hilarity. I fell into step with him, and we set off for his dwelling. \expndtw-1 But first I had the curiosity to look back to the tumble\-\expndtw2 down cottage and ask him its name.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 A queer look came into his eyes. "They ca' the place\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li38\sb437\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs19 to be found in a series of articles in a local paper, the "Allerfoot Advertiser," September and October 1878, and a curious book pub\-\expndtw1 lished anonymously at Edinburgh in 1848, entitled "The Weath-ergaw." The records of the unexplained murders in the same \expndtw6 neighbourhood are all contained in Mr. Fordoun's "Theory of \expndtw2 Expert Evidence," and an attack on the book in the "Law Review" \expndtw0 for June 1881. The Carrickfey case has a pamphlet to itself\emdash now extremely rare\emdash a copy of which was recently obtained in a book\-\expndtw1 seller's shop in Dumfries by a well-known antiquary, and presented \expndtw5 to the library of the Supreme Court in Edinburgh.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3216\cf1\expndtw-2\fs22 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 167\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri82\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Carrickfey," he said. "Naebody has daured to bide there \expndtw2 this twenty year sin'\emdash but I see ye ken the story." And, as if glad to leave the subject, he hastened to discourse \expndtw-2 on fishing.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li653\sb226\cf1\expndtw5\fs18 CHAPTER II. TELLS OF AN EVENING'S TALK.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\ri48\sb226\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 The shepherd was a masterful man; tall, save for the \expndtw2 stoop which belongs to all moorland folk, and active as \expndtw-1 a wild goat. He was not a new importation, nor did he \expndtw6 belong to the place; for his people had lived in the \expndtw0 remote Borders, and he had come as a boy to this shiel\-ing of Farawa. He was unmarried, but an elderly sister \expndtw-1 lived with him and cooked his meals. He was reputed to \expndtw1 be extraordinarily skilful in his trade; I know for a fact \expndtw-1 that he was in his way a keen sportsman; and his few \expndtw-2 neighbours gave him credit for a sincere piety. Doubtless \expndtw4 this last report was due in part to his silence, for after \expndtw0 his first greeting he was wont to relapse into a singular \expndtw2 taciturnity. As we strode across the heather he gave me \expndtw-1 a short outline of his year's lambing. "Five pair o' twins \expndtw1 yestreen, twae this morn; that makes thirty-five yowes \expndtw0 that hae lambed since the Sabbath, I'll dae weel if God's willin'." Then, as I looked towards the hill-tops whence \expndtw-3 the thin mist of morn was trailing, he followed my gaze. \expndtw3 "See," he said with uplifted crook\emdash "see that sicht. Is \expndtw-1 that no what is written of in the Bible when it says, 'The mountains do smoke.' " And with this piece of apologet\-\expndtw2 ics he finished his talk, and in a little we were at the \expndtw-2 cottage.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 It was a small enough dwelling in truth, and yet large \expndtw6 for a moorland house, for it had a garret below the \expndtw-2 thatch, which was given up to my sole enjoyment. Below \expndtw-1 was the wide kitchen with box-beds, and next to it the \expndtw-2 inevitable second room, also with its cupboard sleeping-\expndtw1 places. The interior was very clean, and yet I remember \expndtw-2 to have been struck with the faint musty smell which is \expndtw5 inseparable from moorland dwellings. The kitchen \expndtw2 pleased me best, for there the great rafters were black \expndtw-2 with peat-reek, and the uncovered stone floor, on which \expndtw-3 the fire gleamed dully, gave an air of primeval simplicity. \expndtw-1 But the walls spoiled all, for tawdry things of to-day had\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx2040\cf1\expndtw-18\fs22 168\expndtw0\tab\expndtw1\i John Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri48\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 penetrated even there. Some grocers' almanacs\emdash years \expndtw-1 old\emdash hung in places of honour, and an extraordinary \expndtw2 lithograph of the Royal Family in its youth. And this, \expndtw-3 mind you, between crooks and fishing-rods and old guns, \expndtw3 and horns of sheep and deer.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The life for the first day or two was regular and placid. \expndtw-2 I was up early, breakfasted on porridge (a dish which I \expndtw4 detest), and then off to the lochs and streams. At first \expndtw0 my sport prospered mightily. With a drake-wing I killed \expndtw3 a salmon of seventeen pounds, and the next day had a \expndtw-1 fine basket of trout from a hill-burn. Then for no earthly \expndtw1 reason the weather changed. A bitter wind came out of \expndtw2 the north-east, bringing showers of snow and stinging \expndtw-1 hail, and lashing the waters into storm. It was now fare\-\expndtw0 well to fly-fishing. For a day or two I tried trolling with \expndtw-1 the minnow on the lochs, but it was poor sport, for I had \expndtw2 no boat, and the edges were soft and mossy. Then in \expndtw1 disgust I gave up the attempt, went back to the cottage, \expndtw2 lit my biggest pipe, and sat down with a book to await \expndtw4 the turn of the weather.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The shepherd was out from morning till night at his work, and when he came in at last, dog-tired, his face \expndtw3 would be set and hard, and his eyes heavy with sleep. \expndtw2 The strangeness of the man grew upon me. He had a shrewd brain beneath his thatch of hair, for I had tried \expndtw-2 him once or twice, and found him abundantly intelligent. He had some smattering of an education, like all Scottish \expndtw1 peasants, and, as I have said, he was deeply religious. I \expndtw-2 set him down as a fine type of his class, sober, serious, \expndtw3 keenly critical, free from the bondage of superstition. \expndtw-3 But I rarely saw him, and our talk was chiefly in mono\-\expndtw0 syllables\emdash short interjected accounts of the number of \expndtw2 lambs dead or alive on the hill. Then he would produce \expndtw-3 a pencil and notebook, and be immersed in some calcula\-\expndtw2 tion; and finally he would be revealed sleeping heavily \expndtw-1 in his chair, till his sister wakened him, and he stumbled \expndtw3 off to bed.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 So much for the ordinary course of life; but one day\emdash  the second I think of the bad weather\emdash the extraordinary \expndtw0 happened. The storm had passed in the afternoon into a \expndtw-1 resolute and blinding snow, and the shepherd, finding it \expndtw5 hopeless on the hill, came home about three o'clock. I\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3211\cf1\expndtw-6\fs23 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 169\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri34\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 could make out from his way of entering that he was in \expndtw-1 a great temper. He kicked his feet savagely against the door-post. Then he swore at his dogs, a thing I had never \expndtw2 heard him do before. "Hell!" he cried, "can ye no keep \expndtw3 out o' my road, ye britts?" Then he came sullenly into \expndtw4 the kitchen, thawed his numbed hands at the fire, and \expndtw2 sat down to his meal.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 I made some aimless remark about the weather.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li5\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Death to man and beast," he grunted. "I hae got the sheep doun frae the hill, but the lambs will never thole \expndtw4 this. We maun pray that it will no last."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 His sister came in with some dish. "Margit," he cried, \expndtw0 "three lambs away this morning, and three deid wi' the \expndtw5 hole in the throat."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The woman's face visibly paled. "Guid help us, Adam; \expndtw4 that hasna happened this three year."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "It has happened noo," he said, surlily. "But, by God! \expndtw-1 if it happens again I'll gang mysel' to the Scarts o' the \expndtw1 Muneraw."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "O Adam!" the woman cried shrilly, "baud your \expndtw0 tongue. Ye kenna wha hears ye." And with a frightened \expndtw3 glance at me she left the room.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 I asked no questions, but waited till the shepherd's \expndtw-1 anger should cool. But the cloud did not pass so lightly. \expndtw2 When he had finished his dinner he pulled his chair to \expndtw0 the fire and sat staring moodily. He made some sort of \expndtw4 apology to me for his conduct. "I'm sore troubled sir; \expndtw0 but I'm vexed ye should see me like this. Maybe things \expndtw4 will be better the mom." And then, lighting his short \expndtw1 black pipe, he resigned himself to his meditations.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 But he could not keep quiet. Some nervous unrest \expndtw4 seemed to have possessed the man. He got up with a \expndtw-1 start and went to the window, where the snow was drift\-\expndtw3 ing unsteadily past. As he stared out into the storm I \expndtw5 heard him mutter to himself, "Three away, God help \expndtw6 me, and three wi' the hole in the throat."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Then he turned round to me abruptly. I was jotting \expndtw0 down notes for an article I contemplated in the "Revue \expndtw-1 Celtique," so my thoughts were far away from the pres\-\expndtw4 ent. The man recalled me by demanding fiercely, "Do \expndtw3 ye believe in God?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 I gave him some sort of answer in the affirmative.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2026\cf1\expndtw-12\fs21 170\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i John Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li211\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Then do ye believe in the Devil?" he asked.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\ri77\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The reply must have been less satisfactory, for he came forward and flung himself violently into the chair before \expndtw-4 me.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "What do ye ken about it?" he cried. "You that bides \expndtw6 in a southern toun, what can ye ken o' the God that \expndtw-1 works in thae hills and the Devil\emdash ay, the manifold dev\-\expndtw3 ils\emdash that He suffers to bide here? I tell ye, man, that if ye had seen what I have seen ye wad be on your knees \expndtw0 at this moment praying to God to pardon your unbelief. There are devils at the back o' every stane and hidin' in \expndtw3 every cleuch, and it's by the grace o' God alone that a man is alive upon the earth." His voice had risen high \expndtw-1 and shrill, and then suddenly he cast a frightened glance \expndtw1 towards the window and was silent.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 I began to think that the man's wits were unhinged, \expndtw2 and the thought did not give me satisfaction. I had no \expndtw-2 relish for the prospect of being left alone in this moorland dwelling with the cheerful company of a maniac. But his next movements reassured me. He was clearly only dead-\expndtw4 tired, for he fell sound asleep in his chair, and by the \expndtw1 time his sister brought tea and wakened him, he seemed \expndtw3 to have got the better of his excitement.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 When the window was shuttered and the lamp lit, I set \expndtw0 myself again to the completion of my notes. The shep\-\expndtw3 herd had got out his Bible, and was solemnly reading \expndtw-2 with one great finger travelling down the lines. He was \expndtw3 smoking, and whenever some text came home to him \expndtw-1 with power he would make pretence to underline it with \expndtw4 the end of the stem. Soon I had finished the work I \expndtw-1 desired, and, my mind being full of my pet hobby, I fell into an inquisitive frame of mind, and began to question \expndtw1 the solemn man opposite on the antiquities of the place.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 He stared stupidly at me when I asked him concerning \expndtw1 monuments or ancient weapons.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li62\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "I kenna," said he. "There's a heap o' queer things in \expndtw2 the hills."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li67\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "This place should be a centre for such relics. You know that the name of the hill behind the house, as far \expndtw0 as I can make it out, means the 'Place of the Little Men.' \expndtw3 It is a good Gaelic word, though there is some doubt \expndtw-1 about its exact interpretation. But clearly the Gaelic peo-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3211\cf1\expndtw-2\fs22 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-20 171\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri53\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 ples did not speak of themselves when they gave the \expndtw8 name; they must have referred to some older and \expndtw2 stranger population,"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 The shepherd looked at me dully, as not under\-\expndtw-3 standing.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li5\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 "It is partly this fact\emdash besides the fishing, of course\emdash  \expndtw2 which interests me in this countryside," said I, gaily.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 Again he cast the same queer frightened glance \expndtw-2 towards the window. "If ye'll tak the advice of an aulder \expndtw-3 man," he said, slowly, "ye'll let well alane and no meddle \expndtw1 wi' uncanny things."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 I laughed pleasantly, for at last I had found out my \expndtw3 hardheaded host in a piece of childishness. "Why, I \expndtw6 thought that you of all men would be free from \expndtw0 superstition."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "What do ye call supersteetion?" he asked.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "A belief in old wives' tales," said I, "a trust in the \expndtw2 crude supernatural and the patently impossible."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 He looked at me beneath his shaggy brows. "How do \expndtw-1 ye ken what is impossible? Mind ye, sir, ye're no in the \expndtw4 toun just now, but in the thick of the wild hills."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "But, hang it all, man," I cried, "you don't mean to \expndtw0 say that you believe in that sort of thing? I am prepared \expndtw3 for many things up here, but not for the Brownie,\emdash  \expndtw5 though, to be sure, if one could meet him in the flesh, \expndtw-1 it would be rather pleasant than otherwise, for he was a \expndtw1 companionable sort of fellow."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "When a thing pits the fear o' death on a man he aye \expndtw2 speaks well of it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 It was true\emdash the Eumenides and the Good Folk over again; and I awoke with interest to the fact that the con\-\expndtw1 versation was getting into strange channels.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 The shepherd moved uneasily in his chair. "I am a man that fears God, and has nae time for daft stories; \expndtw0 but I havena traivelled the hills for twenty years wi' my een shut. If I say that I could tell ye stories o' faces seen \expndtw1 in the mist, and queer things that have knocked against \expndtw0 me in the snaw, wad ye believe me? I wager ye wadna. \expndtw6 Ye wad say I had been drunk, and yet I am a God\-\expndtw3 fearing temperate man."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 He rose and went to a cupboard, unlocked it, and \expndtw1 brought out something in his hand, which he held out to\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx2030\cf1\expndtw-18\fs22 172\expndtw0\tab\expndtw1\i John Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 me. I took it with some curiosity, and found that it was \expndtw0 a flint arrow-head.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Clearly a flint arrow-head, and yet like none that I had \expndtw0 ever seen in any collection. For one thing it was larger, \expndtw-2 and the barb less clumsily thick. More, the chipping was \expndtw1 new, or comparatively so; this thing had not stood the \expndtw-1 wear of fifteen hundred years among the stones of the \expndtw-2 hillside. Now there are, I regret to say, institutions which manufacture primitive relics; but it is not hard for a prac\-\expndtw3 tised eye to see the difference. The chipping has either \expndtw-2 a regularity and a balance which is unknown in the real \expndtw1 thing, or the rudeness has been overdone, and the result \expndtw-1 is an implement incapable of harming a mortal creature. \expndtw0 But this was the real thing if it ever existed; and yet\emdash I \expndtw1 was prepared to swear on my reputation that it was not half a century old.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw8\fs23 "Where did you get this?" I asked with some \expndtw-4 nervousness.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "I hae a story about that," said the shepherd. "Outside the door there ye can see a muckle flat stane aside the \expndtw-2 buchts. One simmer nicht I was sitting there smoking till \expndtw2 the dark, and I wager there was naething on the stane \expndtw1 then. But that same nicht I awoke wi' a queer thocht, as \expndtw0 if there were folk moving around the hoose\emdash folk that \expndtw2 didna mak' muckle noise. I mind o' lookin' out o' the windy, and I could hae sworn I saw something black \expndtw4 movin' amang the heather and intil the buchts. Now I \expndtw0 had maybe threescore o' lambs there that nicht, for I had \expndtw-2 to tak' them many miles off in the early morning. Weel, \expndtw5 when I gets up about four o'clock and gangs out, as I \expndtw-2 am passing the muckle stane I finds this bit errow. 'That's \expndtw4 come here in the nicht,' says I, and I wunnered a wee \expndtw1 and put it in my pouch. But when I came to my faulds what did I see? Five o' my best hoggs were away, and \expndtw4 three mair were lying deid wi' a hole in their throat."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\tlhyph\tx2443\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Who in the world\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4 ?" I began.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li53\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Dinna ask," said he. "If I aince sterted to speir about \expndtw4 thae maitters, I wadna keep my reason."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li58\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "Then that was what happened on the hill this \expndtw-1 morning?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Even sae, and it has happened mair than aince sin' \expndtw7 that time. It's the most uncanny slaughter, for sheep-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3202\cf1\expndtw-2\fs22 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 173\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri53\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 stealing I can understand, but no this pricking o' the puir \expndtw4 beasts' wizands. I kenna how they dae't either, for it's no wi' a knife or ony common tool."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Have you never tried to follow the thieves?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Have I no?" he asked, grimly. "If it had been com\-\expndtw2 mon sheep-stealers I wad hae had them by the heels, \expndtw0 though I had followed them a hundred miles. But this is \expndtw3 no common. I've tracked them, and it's ill they are to \expndtw0 track; but I never got beyond ae place, and that was the \expndtw4 Scarts o' the Muneraw that ye've heard me speak o'."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "But who in Heaven's name are the people? Tinklers \expndtw3 or poachers or what?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Ay," said he, drily. "Even so. Tinklers and poachers \expndtw0 whae wark wi' stane errows and kill sheep by a hole in \expndtw4 their throat. Lord, I kenna what they are, unless the \expndtw2 Muckle Deil himsel'."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The conversation had passed beyond my comprehen\-sion. In this prosaic hard-headed man I had come on the \expndtw2 dead-rock of superstition and blind fear.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "That is only the story of the Brownie over again, and \expndtw3 he is an exploded myth," I said, laughing.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Are ye the man that exploded it?" said the shepherd, \expndtw-1 rudely. "I trow no, neither you nor ony ither. My bonny \expndtw0 man, if ye lived a twalmonth in thae hills, ye wad sing \expndtw3 safter about exploded myths, as ye call them."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "I tell you what I would do," said I. "If I lost sheep \expndtw-1 as you lose them, I would go up the Scarts of the Mun\-\expndtw2 eraw and never rest till I had settled the question once \expndtw0 and for all." I spoke hotly, for I was vexed by the man's \expndtw-1 childish fear.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "I daresay ye wad," he said, slowly. "But then I am \expndtw5 no you, and maybe I ken mair o' what is in the Scarts \expndtw4 p' the Muneraw. Maybe I ken that whilk, if ye kenned \expndtw1 it, wad send ye back to the South Country wi' your hert \expndtw2 in your mouth. But, as I say, I am no sae brave as you, \expndtw0 for I saw something in the first year o' my herding here \expndtw5 which put the terror o' God on me, and makes me a \expndtw0 fearfu' man to this day. Ye ken the story o' the gudeman \expndtw2 o' Carrickfey?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 I nodded.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Weel, I was the man that fand him. I had seen the \expndtw6 deid afore and I've seen them since. But never have I\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\tx2026\cf1\expndtw-12\fs21 174\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i John Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri38\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 seen aucht like the look in that man's een. What he saw \expndtw4 at his death I may see the morn, so I walk before the Lord in fear."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li10\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Then he rose and stretched himself. "It's bedding-\expndtw0 time, for I maun be up at three," and with a short good \expndtw3 night he left the room.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li595\sb240\cf1\expndtw5\b\fs17 CHAPTER III. THE SCARTS OF THE MUNERAW\cf0\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\ri24\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The next morning was fine, for the snow had been inter\-\expndtw0 mittent, and had soon melted except in the high conies. \expndtw4 True, it was deceptive weather, for the wind had gone \expndtw-1 to the rainy south-west, and the masses of cloud on that \expndtw-2 horizon boded ill for the afternoon. But some days' inac\-\expndtw1 tion had made me keen for a chance of sport, so I rose \expndtw4 with the shepherd and set out for the day.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 He asked me where I proposed to begin.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 I told him the tarn called the Loch o' the Threshes, \expndtw-1 which lies over the back of the Muneraw on another \expndtw1 watershed. It is on the ground of the Rhynns Forest, and \expndtw-1 I had fished it of old from the Forest House. I knew the \expndtw-2 merits of the trout, and I knew its virtues in a south-west \expndtw3 wind, so I had resolved to go thus far afield.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The shepherd heard the name in silence. "Your best \expndtw0 road will be ower that rig, and syne on to the water o' \expndtw1 Caulds. Keep abune the moss till ye come to the place \expndtw4 they ca' the Nick o' the Threshes. That will take ye to the very lochside, but it's a lang road and a sair."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The morning was breaking over the bleak hills. Little clouds drifted athwart the corries, and wisps of haze flut\-\expndtw4 tered from the peaks. A great rosy flush lay over one \expndtw-1 side of the glen, which caught the edge of the sluggish \expndtw2 bog-pools and turned them to fire. Never before had I \expndtw4 seen the mountain-land so clear, for far back into the \expndtw-2 east and west I saw mountain-tops set as close as flowers \expndtw-3 in a border, black crags seamed with silver lines which I \expndtw2 knew for mighty waterfalls, and below at my feet the \expndtw-3 lower slopes fresh with the dewy green of spring. A name \expndtw2 stuck in my memory from the last night's talk.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Where are the Scarts of the Muneraw?" I asked.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The shepherd pointed to the great hill which bears the name, and which lies, a huge mass, above the watershed.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3206\cf1\expndtw-2\fs22 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 175\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri53\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "D'ye see yon corrie at the east that runs straucht up \expndtw5 the side? It looks a bit scan, but it's sae deep that it's \expndtw1 aye derk at the bottom o't. Weel, at the tap o' the rig it \expndtw3 meets anither corrie that runs doun the ither side, and \expndtw1 that one they ca' the Scarts. There is a sort o' burn in it \expndtw3 that flows intil the Dule and sae intil the Aller, and, \expndtw-1 indeed, if ye were gaun there it wad be from Aller Glen \expndtw3 that your best road wad lie. But it's an ill bit, and ye'll \expndtw4 be sair guidit if ye try't."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 There he left me and went across the glen, while I \expndtw0 struck upwards over the ridge. At the top I halted and \expndtw-2 looked down on the wide glen of the Caulds, which there \expndtw0 is little better than a bog, but lower down grows into a \expndtw-2 green pastoral valley. The great Muneraw still dominated \expndtw1 the landscape, and the black scaur on its side seemed \expndtw-1 blacker than before. The place fascinated me, for in that \expndtw4 fresh morning air the shepherd's fears seemed mon\-strous. "Some day," said I to myself, "I will go and \expndtw-2 explore the whole of that mighty hill." Then I descended \expndtw-1 and struggled over the moss, found the Nick, and in two \expndtw3 hours' time was on the loch's edge.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 I have little in the way of good to report of the fishing. \expndtw0 For perhaps one hour the trout took well; after that they \expndtw1 sulked steadily for the day. The promise, too, of fine \expndtw2 weather had been deceptive. By midday the rain was \expndtw1 falling in that soft soaking fashion which gives no hope \expndtw-1 of clearing. The mist was down to the edge of the water, \expndtw-2 and I cast my flies into a blind sea of white. It was hope\-\expndtw0 less work, and yet from a sort of ill-temper I stuck to it \expndtw-3 long after my better judgment had warned me of its folly. \expndtw0 At last, about three in the afternoon, I struck my camp, \expndtw2 and prepared myself for a long and toilsome retreat.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 And long and toilsome it was beyond anything I had ever encountered. Had I had a vestige of sense I would \expndtw-2 have followed the burn from the loch down to the Forest \expndtw3 House. The place was shut up, but the keeper would \expndtw0 gladly have given me shelter for the night. But foolish \expndtw-1 pride was too strong in me. I had found my road in mist \expndtw3 before, and could do it again.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Before I got to the top of the hill I had repented my \expndtw-1 decision; when I got there I repented it more. For below \expndtw4 me was a dizzy chaos of grey; there was no landmark\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx2030\cf1\expndtw-12\fs21 176\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i John Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri29\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 visible; and before me I knew was the bog through which \expndtw2 the Caulds Water twined. I\i  \i0 had crossed it with some \expndtw0 trouble in the morning, but then I had light to pick my \expndtw1 steps. Now I could only stumble on, and in five minutes \expndtw2 I might be in a bog-hole, and in five more in a better \expndtw-5 world.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 But there was no help to be got from hesitation, so \expndtw-3 with a rueful courage I set off. The place was if possible \expndtw-1 worse than I had feared. Wading up to the knees with \expndtw3 nothing before you but a blank wall of mist and the \expndtw0 cheerful consciousness that your next step may be your \expndtw-2 last\emdash such was my state for one weary mile. The stream \expndtw2 itself was high, and rose to my armpits, and once and \expndtw0 again I only saved myself by a violent leap backwards \expndtw2 from a pitiless green slough. But at last it was past, and I was once more on the solid ground of the hillside;\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Now, in the thick weather I had crossed the glen much \expndtw-1 lower down than in the morning, and the result was that \expndtw2 the hill on which I stood was one of the giants which, with the Muneraw for centre, guard the watershed. Had \expndtw-1 I taken the proper way, the Nick o' the Threshes would \expndtw4 have led me to the Caulds, and then once over the bog \expndtw0 a little ridge was all that stood between me and the glen \expndtw-2 of Farawa. But instead I had come a wild cross-country \expndtw2 road, and was now, though I did not know it, nearly as \expndtw3 far from my destination as at the start.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Well for me that I did not know, for I was wet and \expndtw-2 dispirited, and had I not fancied myself all but home, I \expndtw1 should scarcely have had the energy to make this last \expndtw-1 ascent. But soon I found it was not the little ridge I had \expndtw-2 expected. I looked at my watch and saw that it was five \expndtw0 o'clock. When, after the weariest climb, I lay on a piece \expndtw-3 of level ground which seemed the top, I was not surprised \expndtw-1 to find that it was now seven. The darkening must be at hand, and sure enough the mist seemed to be deepening \expndtw4 into a greyish black. I began to grow desperate. Here \expndtw-2 was I on the summit of some infernal mountain, without \expndtw-3 any certainty where my road lay. I was lost with a ven\-\expndtw2 geance, and at the thought I began to be acutely afraid.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 I took what seemed to me the way I had come, and \expndtw-2 began to descend steeply. Then something made me halt, \expndtw1 and the next instant I was lying on my face trying pain-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3206\cf1\expndtw-2\fs22 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 177\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri38\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 fully to retrace my steps. For I had found myself slipping, \expndtw-1 and before I could stop, my feet were dangling over a \expndtw-2 precipice with Heaven alone knows how many yards of \expndtw3 sheer mist between me and the bottom. Then I tried \expndtw2 keeping the ridge, and took that to the right, which I \expndtw1 thought would bring me nearer home. It was no good \expndtw3 trying to think out a direction, for in the fog my brain \expndtw-1 was running round, and I seemed to stand on a pin-point \expndtw1 of space where the laws of the compass had ceased to \expndtw-3 hold.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 It was the roughest sort of walking, now stepping \expndtw-3 warily over acres of loose stones, now crawling down the \expndtw-2 face of some battered rock, and now wading in the long \expndtw-1 dripping heather. The soft rain had begun to fall again, \expndtw1 which completed my discomfort. I was now seriously tired, and, like all men who in their day have bent too \expndtw-3 much over books, I began to feel it in my back. My spine \expndtw0 ached, and my breath came in short broken pants. It was \expndtw4 a pitiable state of affairs for an honest man who had \expndtw5 never encountered much grave discomfort. To ease \expndtw-3 myself I was compelled to leave my basket behind me, \expndtw-2 trusting to return and find it, if I should ever reach safety \expndtw3 and discover on what pathless hill I had been strayed. \expndtw-1 My rod I used as a staff, but it was of little use, for my \expndtw2 fingers were getting too numb to hold it.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Suddenly from the blankness I heard a sound as of \expndtw0 human speech. At first I thought it mere craziness\emdash the cry of a weasel or a hill-bird distorted by my ears. But again it came, thick and faint, as through acres of mist, \expndtw1 and yet clearly the sound of "articulate-speaking men." \expndtw0 In a moment I lost my despair and cried out in answer. \expndtw-2 This was some forwandered traveller like myself, and \expndtw0 between us we could surely find some road to safety. So \expndtw-3 I yelled back at the pitch of my voice and waited intently.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 But the sound ceased, and there was utter silence \expndtw1 again. Still I waited, and then from some place much \expndtw3 nearer came the same soft mumbling speech. I could \expndtw-1 make nothing of it. Heard in that drear place it made the nerves tense and the heart timorous. It was the strangest \expndtw2 jumble of vowels and consonants I had ever met.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 A dozen solutions flashed through my brain. It was \expndtw-2 some maniac talking Jabberwock to himself. It was some\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\tx2026\cf1\expndtw-14\fs23 178\expndtw0\tab\expndtw5\i John \b Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\b0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri29\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 belated traveller whose wits had given out in fear. Per\-\expndtw-4 haps it was only some shepherd who was amusing himself \expndtw-1 thus, and whiling the way with nonsense. Once again I \expndtw2 cried out and waited.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 Then suddenly in the hollow trough of mist before me, \expndtw-1 where things could still be half discerned, there appeared \expndtw0 a figure. It was little and squat and dark; naked, appar\-ently, but so rough with hair that it wore the appearance \expndtw-3 of a skin-covered being. It crossed my line of vision, not \expndtw3 staying for a moment, but in its face and eyes there \expndtw-1 seemed to lurk an elder world of mystery and barbarism, \expndtw1 a troll-like life which was too horrible for words.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 The shepherd's fear came back on me like a thunder\-\expndtw-2 clap. For one awful instant my legs failed me, and I had \expndtw3 almost fallen. The next I had turned and ran shrieking \expndtw2 up the hill.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 If he who may read this narrative has never felt the \expndtw0 force of an overmastering terror, then let him thank his \expndtw-1 Maker and pray that he never may. I am no weak child, \expndtw-2 but a strong grown man, accredited in general with sound sense and little suspected of hysterics. And yet I went up \expndtw4 that brae-face with my heart fluttering like a bird and \expndtw-3 my throat aching with fear. I screamed in short dry gasps; \expndtw2 involuntarily, for my mind was beyond any purpose. I \expndtw0 felt that beast-like clutch at my throat; those red eyes seemed to be staring at me from the mist; I heard ever behind and before and on all sides the patter of those inhuman feet.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Before I knew I was down, slipping over a rock and \expndtw-2 falling some dozen feet into a soft marshy hollow. I was \expndtw-1 conscious of lying still for a second and whimpering like \expndtw0 a child. But as I lay there I awoke to the silence of the place. There was no sound of pursuit; perhaps they had \expndtw-2 lost my track and given up. My courage began to return, \expndtw1 and from this it was an easy step to hope. Perhaps after \expndtw2 all it had been merely an illusion, for folk do not see \expndtw8 clearly in the mist, and I was already done with \expndtw-4 weariness.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 But even as I lay in the green moss and began to hope, \expndtw0 the faces of my pursuers grew up through the mist. I \expndtw2 stumbled madly to my feet; but I was hemmed in, the \expndtw0 rock behind and my enemies before. With a cry I rushed\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3211\cf1\expndtw-2\fs22 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-16 179\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri38\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 forward, and struck wildly with my rod at the first dark \expndtw0 body. It was as if I had struck an animal, and the next \expndtw-2 second the thing was wrenched from my grasp. But still \expndtw0 they came no nearer. I stood trembling there in the cen\-\expndtw-2 tre of those malignant devils, my brain a mere weather\-\expndtw3 cock, and my heart crushed shapeless with horror. At \expndtw-2 last the end came, for with the vigour of madness I flung \expndtw-3 myself on the nearest, and we rolled on the ground. Then \expndtw1 the monstrous things seemed to close over me, and with \expndtw0 a choking cry I passed into unconsciousness.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li34\sb211\cf1\expndtw-12\b\f2 CHAPTER IV. THE DARKNESS THAT IS UNDER THE EARTH\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f0\par
\pard\cbpat2\li19\ri24\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 There is an unconsciousness that is not wholly dead, \expndtw-3 where a man feels numbly and the body lives without the \expndtw-1 brain. I was beyond speech or thought, and yet I felt the \expndtw2 upward or downward motion as the way lay in hill or \expndtw-2 glen, and I most assuredly knew when the open air was \expndtw2 changed for the close underground. I could feel dimly \expndtw-1 that lights were flared in my face, and that I was laid in some bed on the earth. Then with the stopping of move\-\expndtw1 ment the real sleep of weakness seized me, and for long \expndtw2 I knew nothing of this mad world.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Morning came over the moors with bird-song and the \expndtw0 glory of fine weather. The streams were still rolling in \expndtw2 spate, but the hill-pastures were alight with dawn, and \expndtw0 the little seams of snow glistened like white fire. A ray \expndtw1 from the sunrise cleft its path somehow into the abyss, \expndtw2 and danced on the wall above my couch. It caught my \expndtw0 eye as I wakened, and for long I lay crazily wondering \expndtw2 what it meant. My head was splitting with pain, and in \expndtw-1 my heart was the same fluttering nameless fear. I did not \expndtw2 wake to full consciousness; not till the twinkle of sun \expndtw1 from the clean bright out-of-doors caught my senses did \expndtw2 I realise that I lay in a great dark place with a glow of \expndtw1 dull firelight in the middle.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 In time things rose and moved around me, a few rag\-\expndtw3 ged shapes of men, without clothing, shambling with \expndtw1 their huge feet and looking towards me with curved \expndtw-1 beast-like glances. I tried to marshal my thoughts, and \expndtw4 slowly, bit by bit, I built up the present. There was no\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx2026\cf1\expndtw-13\fs21 180\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i John Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri24\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 question to my mind of dreaming; the past hours had \expndtw0 scored reality upon my brain. Yet I cannot say that fear \expndtw-3 was my chief feeling. The first crazy terror had subsided, \expndtw-2 and now I felt mainly a sickened disgust with just a tinge \expndtw2 of curiosity. I found that my knife, watch, flask, and \expndtw0 money had gone, but they had left me a map of the \expndtw-1 countryside. It seemed strange to look at the calico, with the name of a London printer stamped on the back, and \expndtw4 lines of railway and highroad running through every \expndtw-1 shire. Decent and comfortable civilisation! And here was \expndtw-2 I a prisoner in this den of nameless folk, and in the midst \expndtw1 of a life which history knew not.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Courage is a virtue which grows with reflection and \expndtw-2 the absence of the immediate peril. I thought myself into \expndtw10 some sort of resolution, and lo! when the Folk \expndtw4 approached me and bound my feet I was back at once \expndtw2 in the most miserable terror. They tied me all but my \expndtw-1 hands with some strong cord, and carried me to the cen\-\expndtw-2 tre, where the fire was glowing. Their soft touch was the \expndtw1 acutest torture to my nerves, but I stifled my cries lest \expndtw-1 some one should lay his hand on my mouth. Had that happened, I am convinced my reason would have failed \expndtw-4 me.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 So there I lay in the shine of the fire, with the circle \expndtw2 of unknown things around me. There seemed but three \expndtw-1 or four, but I took no note of number. They talked husk\-\expndtw-3 ily among themselves in a tongue which sounded all gut\-\expndtw1 turals. Slowly my fear became less an emotion than a \expndtw0 habit, and I had room for the smallest shade of curiosity. \expndtw5 I strained my ear to catch a word, but it was a mere \expndtw-1 chaos of sound. The thing ran and thundered in my brain \expndtw3 as I stared dumbly into the vacant air. Then I thought \expndtw1 that unless I spoke I should certainly go crazy, for my \expndtw0 head was beginning to swim at the strange cooing noise.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 I spoke a word or two in my best Gaelic, and they \expndtw-3 closed round me inquiringly. Then I was sorry I had spo\-\expndtw7 ken, for my words had brought them nearer, and I \expndtw4 shrank at the thought. But as the faint echoes of my \expndtw-2 speech hummed in the rock-chamber, I was struck by a \expndtw-1 curious kinship of sound. Mine was sharper, more dis\-tinct, and staccato; theirs was blurred, formless, but still \expndtw1 with a certain root-resemblance.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3211\cf1\expndtw-2\fs22 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-20 181\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\ri62\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Then from the back there came an older being, who \expndtw-1 seemed to have heard my words. He was like some foul \expndtw6 grey badger, his red eyes sightless, and his hands \expndtw0 trembling on a stump of bog-oak. The others made way \expndtw-2 for him with such deference as they were capable of, and \expndtw3 the thing squatted down by me and spoke.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 To my amazement his words were familiar. It was \expndtw1 some manner of speech akin to the Gaelic, but broad\-\expndtw-1 ened, lengthened, coarsened. I remembered an old book-\expndtw-2 tongue, commonly supposed to be an impure dialect once used in Brittany, which I had met in the course of my \expndtw0 researches. The words recalled it, and as far as I could \expndtw-1 remember the thing, I asked him who he was and where \expndtw2 the place might be.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 He answered me in the same speech\emdash still more broad\-\expndtw1 ened, lengthened, coarsened. I lay back with sheer \expndtw3 amazement. I had found the key to this unearthly life.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 For a little an insatiable curiosity, the ardour of the scholar, prevailed. I forgot the horror of the place, and \expndtw2 thought only of the fact that here before me was the \expndtw0 greatest find that scholarship had ever made. I was pre\-\expndtw1 cipitated into the heart of the past. Here must be the \expndtw-2 fountainhead of all legends, the chrysalis of all beliefs. I \expndtw-1 actually grew light-hearted. This strange folk around me were now no more shapeless things of terror, but objects of research and experiment. I almost came to think them not unfriendly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 For an hour I enjoyed the highest of earthly pleasures. In that strange conversation I heard\emdash in fragments and \expndtw-3 suggestions\emdash the history of the craziest survival the world \expndtw-1 has ever seen. I heard of the struggles with invaders, \expndtw0 preserved as it were in a sort of shapeless poetry. There were bitter words against the Gaelic oppressor, bitterer \expndtw2 words against the Saxon stranger, and for a moment \expndtw0 ancient hatreds flared into life. Then there came the tale \expndtw3 of the hill-refuge, the morbid hideous existence pre\-\expndtw-2 served for centuries amid a changing world. I heard frag\-\expndtw4 ments of old religions, primeval names of god and \expndtw0 goddess, half-understood by the Folk, but to me the key \expndtw-3 to a hundred puzzles. Tales which survive to us in broken \expndtw2 disjointed riddles were intact here in living form. I lay \expndtw-1 on my elbow and questioned feverishly. At any moment\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx2030\cf1\expndtw-18\fs23 182\expndtw0\tab\expndtw5\i John \b Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\b0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri43\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 they might become morose and refuse to speak. Clearly \expndtw-1 it was my duty to make the most of a brief good fortune.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 And then the tale they told me grew more hideous. I \expndtw-3 heard of the circumstances of the life itself and their daily \expndtw-2 shifts for existence. It was a murderous chronicle\emdash a his\-\expndtw0 tory of lust and rapine and unmentionable deeds in the \expndtw-1 darkness. One thing they had early recognised\emdash that the \expndtw-2 race could not be maintained within itself; so that ghoul\-\expndtw-3 ish carrying away of little girls from the lowlands began, \expndtw-2 which I had heard of but never credited. Shut up in those \expndtw-1 dismal holes, the girls soon died, and when the new race had grown up the plunder had been repeated. Then there \expndtw0 were bestial murders in lonely cottages, done for God \expndtw-2 knows what purpose. Sometimes the occupant had seen \expndtw-1 more than was safe, sometimes the deed was the mere \expndtw2 exuberance of a lust of slaying. As they gabbled their \expndtw-2 tales my heart's blood froze, and I lay back in the agonies \expndtw2 of fear. If they had used the others thus, what way of \expndtw-1 escape was open for myself? I had been brought to this \expndtw0 place, and not murdered on the spot. Clearly there was \expndtw4 torture before death in store for me, and I confess I \expndtw3 quailed at the thought.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 But none molested me. The elders continued to jabber \expndtw0 out their stories, while I lay tense and deaf. Then to my \expndtw-1 amazement food was brought and placed beside me\emdash  \expndtw0 almost with respect. Clearly my murder was not a thing \expndtw1 of the immediate future. The meal was some form of \expndtw0 mutton\emdash perhaps the shepherd's lost ewes\emdash and a little \expndtw2 smoking was all the cooking it had got. I strove to eat, \expndtw-1 but the tasteless morsels choked me. Then they set drink \expndtw2 before me in a curious cup, which I seized on eagerly, \expndtw-3 for my mouth was dry with thirst. The vessel was of gold, \expndtw-2 rudely formed, but of the pure metal, and a coarse design \expndtw6 in circles ran round the middle. This surprised me \expndtw4 enough, but a greater wonder awaited me. The liquor \expndtw2 was not water, as I had guessed, but a sort of sweet ale, \expndtw-2 a miracle of flavour. The taste was curious, but somehow \expndtw0 familiar; it was like no wine I had ever drunk, and yet I \expndtw-1 had known that flavour all my life. I sniffed at the brim, \expndtw2 and there rose a faint fragrance of thyme and heather \expndtw-1 honey and the sweet things of the moorland. I almost \expndtw4 dropped the thing in my surprise; for here in this rude\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3216\cf1\expndtw-6\fs23 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-22 183\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 place I had stumbled upon that lost delicacy of the North, \expndtw3 the heather ale.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 For a second I was entranced with my discovery, and \expndtw4 then the wonder of the cup claimed my attention. Was \expndtw1 it a mere relic of pillage, or had this folk some hidden mine of the precious metal? Gold had once been com\-\expndtw0 mon in these hills. There were the traces of mines on Cairnsmore; shepherds had found it in the gravel of the \expndtw1 Gled Water; and the name of a house at the head of the \expndtw4 Clachlands meant the "Home of Gold."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Once more I began my questions, and they answered \expndtw2 them willingly. There and then I heard that secret for \expndtw6 which many had died in old time, the secret of the \expndtw-1 heather ate. They told of the gold in the hills, of corries \expndtw3 where the sand gleamed and abysses where the rocks \expndtw-2 were veined. All this they told me, freely, without a scru\-\expndtw1 ple. And then, tike a clap, came the awful thought that \expndtw2 this, too, spelled death. These were secrets which this race aforetime had guarded with their lives; they told them generously to me because there was no fear of \expndtw3 betrayal. I should go no more out from this place.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\tlhyph\tx1488\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 The thought put me into a new sweat of terror\emdash not\line\expndtw1 at death, mind you, but at the unknown horrors which\line\expndtw0 might precede the final suffering. I lay silent, and after\line\expndtw-1 binding my hands they began to leave me and go off to\line\expndtw5 other parts of the cave. I dozed in the horrible half-\line\expndtw-1 swoon of fear, conscious only of my shaking limbs, and\line\expndtw5 the great dull glow of the fire in the centre. Then I\line\expndtw-1 became calmer. After all, they had treated me with toler\-\line\expndtw-2 able kindness: I had spoken their language, which few of\line\expndtw4 their victims could have done for many a century; it\line\expndtw5 might be that I had found favour in their eyes. For a\line\expndtw-1 little I comforted myself with this delusion, till I caught\line\expndtw4 sight of a wooden box in a corner. It was of modern\line\expndtw1 make, one such as grocers use to pack provisions in. It\line\expndtw-1 had some address nailed on it, and an aimless curiosity\line\expndtw1 compelled me to creep thither and read it. A torn and\line\expndtw-1 weather-stained scrap of paper, with the nails at the cor\-\line\expndtw1 ner rusty with age; but something of the address might\line\expndtw-2 still be made out. Amid the stains my feverish eyes read,\line\expndtw5 "To Mr M\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2 , Carrickfey, by Allerfoot Station."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs23 The ruined cottage in the hollow of the waste with the\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx2030\cf1\expndtw-17\fs23 184\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4\i John \b Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\b0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri29\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 single gnarled apple-tree was before me in a twinkling. I \expndtw-1 remembered the shepherd's shrinking from the place and \expndtw-2 the name, and his wild eyes when he told me of the thing \expndtw6 that had happened there. I seemed to see the old man \expndtw3 in his moorland cottage, thinking no evil; the sudden \expndtw-1 entry of the nameless things; and then the eyes glazed in unspeakable terror. I felt my lips dry and burning. Above \expndtw0 me was the vault of rock; in the distance I saw the fire-\expndtw-1 glow and the shadows of shapes moving around it. My \expndtw4 fright was too great for inaction, so I crept from the \expndtw-1 couch, and silently, stealthily, with tottering steps and \expndtw3 bursting heart, I began to reconnoitre.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 But I was still bound, my arms tightly, my legs more \expndtw-1 loosely, but yet firm enough to hinder flight. I could not get my hands at my leg-straps, still less could I undo the manacles. I rolled on the floor, seeking some sharp edge \expndtw1 of rock, but all had been worn smooth by the use of \expndtw0 centuries. Then suddenly an idea came upon me like an \expndtw1 inspiration. The sounds from the fire seemed to have \expndtw5 ceased, and I could hear them repeated from another \expndtw-1 and more distant part of the cave. The Folk had left their \expndtw4 orgy round the blaze, and at the end of the long tunnel \expndtw-1 I saw its glow fall unimpeded upon the floor. Once there, \expndtw6 I might burn off my fetters and be free to turn my \expndtw1 thoughts to escape.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 I crawled a little way with much labour. Then suddenly \expndtw0 I came abreast an opening in the wall, through which a \expndtw-1 path went. It was a long straight rock-cutting, and at the \expndtw0 end I saw a gleam of pale light. It must be the open air; \expndtw-2 the way of escape was prepared for me; and with a prayer \expndtw3 I made what speed I could towards the fire.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 I rolled on the verge, but the fuel was peat, and the \expndtw0 warm ashes would not burn the cords. In desperation I \expndtw1 went farther, and my clothes began to singe, while my \expndtw4 face ached beyond endurance. But yet I got no nearer \expndtw3 my object. The strips of hide warped and cracked, but \expndtw4 did not burn. Then in a last effort I thrust my wrists bodily into the glow and held them there. In an instant \expndtw1 I drew them out with a groan of pain, scarred and sore, \expndtw-1 but to my joy with the band snapped in one place. Weak \expndtw0 as I was, it was now easy to free myself, and then came \expndtw6 the untying of my legs. My hands trembled, my eyes\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3211\cf1\expndtw1\fs22 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-16 185\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\ri62\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 were dazed with hurry, and I was longer over the job than need have been. But at length I had loosed my \expndtw1 cramped knees and stood on my feet, a free man once \expndtw-2 more.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 I kicked off my boots, and fled noiselessly down the \expndtw0 passage to the tunnel mouth. Apparently it was close on evening, for the white light had faded to a pale yellow. \expndtw1 But it was daylight, and that was all I sought, and I ran for it as eagerly as ever runner ran to a goal. I came out \expndtw-3 on a rock-shelf, beneath which a moraine of boulders fell \expndtw2 away in a chasm to a dark loch. It was all but night, but \expndtw0 I could see the gnarled and fortressed rocks rise in ram\-\expndtw1 parts above, and below the unknown screes and cliffs \expndtw2 which make the side of the Muneraw a place only for foxes and the fowls of the air.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 The first taste of liberty is an intoxication, and \expndtw0 assuredly I was mad when I leaped down among the \expndtw-1 boulders. Happily at the top of the gully the stones were large and stable, else the noise would certainly have dis\-\expndtw-2 covered me. Down I went, slipping, praying, my charred \expndtw0 wrists aching, and my stockinged feet wet with blood. \expndtw-1 Soon I was in the jaws of the cleft, and a pale star rose before me. I have always been timid in the face of great \expndtw3 rocks, and now, had not an awful terror been dogging my footsteps, no power on earth could have driven me \expndtw5 to that descent. Soon I left the boulders behind, and \expndtw1 came to long spouts of little stones, which moved with \expndtw-2 me till the hillside seemed sinking under my feet. Some\-times I was face downwards, once and again I must have \expndtw4 fallen for yards. Had there been a cliff at the foot, I \expndtw-1 should have gone over it without resistance; but by the \expndtw0 providence of God the spout ended in a long curve into \expndtw4 the heather of the bog.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 When I found my feet once more on soft boggy earth, \expndtw1 my strength was renewed within me. A great hope of \expndtw4 escape sprang up in my heart. For a second I looked \expndtw0 back. There was a great line of shingle with the cliffs \expndtw4 beyond, and above all the unknown blackness of the \expndtw3 cleft. There lay my terror, and I set off running across \expndtw-2 the bog for dear life. My mind was clear enough to know \expndtw1 my road. If I held round the loch in front I should come to a burn which fed the Farawa stream, on whose banks\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx2035\cf1\expndtw-18\fs23 186\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4\i John \b Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\b0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri48\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 stood the shepherd's cottage. The loch could not be far; \expndtw-2 once at the Farawa I would have the light of the shieling \expndtw2 clear before me.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Suddenly I heard behind me, as if coming from the \expndtw-1 hillside, the patter of feet. It was the sound which white \expndtw1 hares make in the winter-time on a noiseless frosty day \expndtw0 as they patter over the snow. I have heard the same soft \expndtw-1 noise from a herd of deer when they changed their pas\-tures. Strange that so kindly a sound should put the very \expndtw-2 fear of death in my heart. I ran madly, blindly, yet think\-ing shrewdly. The loch was before me. Somewhere I had \expndtw1 read or heard, I do not know where, that the brutish \expndtw0 aboriginal races of the North could not swim. I myself \expndtw-3 swam powerfully; could I but cross the loch I should save \expndtw2 two miles of a desperate country.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 There was no time to lose, for the patter was coming \expndtw5 nearer, and I was almost at the loch's edge. I tore off \expndtw4 my coat and rushed in. The bottom was mossy, and I \expndtw0 had to struggle far before I found any depth. Something plashed in the water before me, and then something else \expndtw7 a little behind. The thought that I was a mark for \expndtw-4 unknown missiles made me crazy with fright, and I struck \expndtw2 fiercely out for the other shore. A gleam of moonlight \expndtw1 was on the water at the burn's exit, and thither I guided \expndtw3 myself. I found the thing difficult enough in itself, for my hands ached, and I was numb with my bonds. But \expndtw-2 my fancy raised a thousand phantoms to vex me. Swim\-ming in that black bog water, pursued by those nameless \expndtw-1 things, I seemed to be in a world of horror far removed \expndtw-2 from the kindly world of men. My strength seemed inex\-\expndtw0 haustible from my terror. Monsters at the bottom of the \expndtw5 water seemed to bite at my feet, and the pain of my \expndtw3 wrists made me believe that the loch was boiling hot, and that I was in some hellish place of torment.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 I came out on a spit of gravel above the burn mouth, \expndtw1 and set off down the ravine of the burn. It was a strait \expndtw-1 place, strewn with rocks; but now and then the hill turf came in stretches, and eased my wounded feet. Soon the \expndtw-2 fall became more abrupt, and I was slipping down a hill\-\expndtw-1 side, with the water on my left making great cascades in \expndtw1 the granite. And then I was out in the wider vale where the Farawa water flowed among links of moss.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3211\cf1\expndtw-2\fs22 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 187\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri19\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Far in front, a speck in the blue darkness, shone the \expndtw0 light of the cottage. I panted forward, my breath coming \expndtw-1 in gasps and my back shot with fiery pains. Happily the \expndtw0 land was easier for the feet as long as I kept on the skirts \expndtw3 of the bog. My ears were sharp as a wild beast's with \expndtw-1 fear, as I listened for the noise of pursuit. Nothing came \expndtw0 but the rustle of the gentlest hill-wind and the chatter of the falling streams.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Then suddenly the light began to waver and move athwart the window. I knew what it meant. In a minute \expndtw1 or two the household at the cottage would retire to rest, \expndtw2 and the lamp would be put out. True, I might find the \expndtw1 place in the dark, for there was a moon of sorts and the \expndtw0 road was not desperate. But somehow in that hour the \expndtw-2 lamplight gave a promise of safety which I clung to \expndtw-4 despairingly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 And then the last straw was added to my misery. Behind me came the pad of feet, the pat-patter, soft, \expndtw3 eerie, incredibly swift. I choked with fear, and flung \expndtw2 myself forward in a last effort. I give my word it was \expndtw-2 sheer mechanical shrinking that drove me on. God knows \expndtw2 I would have lain down to die in the heather, had the \expndtw3 things behind me been a common terror of life.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 I ran as man never ran before, leaping hags, scram\-\expndtw-1 bling through green well-heads, straining towards the \expndtw5 fast-dying light. A quarter of a mile and the patter \expndtw0 sounded nearer. Soon I was not two hundred yards off, \expndtw-2 and the noise seemed almost at my elbow. The light went \expndtw4 out, and the black mass of the cottage loomed in the \expndtw-1 dark.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Then, before I knew, I was at the door, battering it \expndtw0 wearily and yelling for help. I heard steps within and a \expndtw1 hand on the bolt. Then something shot past me with \expndtw-1 lightning force and buried itself in the wood. The dread\-\expndtw0 ful hands were almost at my throat, when the door was \expndtw-1 opened and I stumbled in, hearing with a gulp of joy the \expndtw4 key turn and the bar fall behind me.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li538\sb226\cf1\expndtw-1\b\fs18 CHAPTER V. THE TROUBLES OF A CONSCIENCE\cf0\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li38\sb226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs23 My body and senses slept, for I was utterly tired, but my brain all the night was on fire with horrid fancies. Again\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\tx2030\cf1\expndtw-18\fs23 188\expndtw0\tab\expndtw5\i John \b Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\b0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri67\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 I was in that accursed cave; I was torturing my hands in the fire; I was slipping barefoot among jagged boulders; \expndtw1 and then with bursting heart I was toiling the last mile \expndtw-1 with the cottage light\emdash now grown to a great fire in the \expndtw-2 heavens\emdash blazing before me.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 It was broad daylight when I awoke, and I thanked \expndtw1 God for the comfortable rays of the sun. I had been laid in a box-bed off the inner room, and my first sight was \expndtw-2 the shepherd sitting with folded arms in a chair regarding \expndtw-1 me solemnly. I rose and began to dress, feeling my legs \expndtw1 and arms still tremble with weariness. The shepherd's \expndtw3 sister bound up my scarred wrists and put an ointment \expndtw1 on my burns; and, limping like an old man, I went into the kitchen.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 I could eat little breakfast, for my throat seemed dry \expndtw0 and narrow; but they gave me some brandy-and-milk, \expndtw-2 which put strength into my body. All the time the brother \expndtw6 and sister sat in silence, regarding me with covert \expndtw-5 glances.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Ye have been delivered from the jaws o' the Pit," said the man at length. "See that," and he held out to \expndtw2 me a thin shaft of flint. "I fand that in the door this \expndtw0 morning."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 I took it, let it drop, and stared vacantly at the win\-dow. My nerves had been too much tried to be roused \expndtw5 by any new terror. Out of doors it was fair weather, \expndtw0 flying gleams of April sunlight and the soft colours of \expndtw1 spring. I felt dazed, isolated, cut off from my easy past \expndtw5 and pleasing future, a companion of horrors and the \expndtw0 sport of nameless things. Then suddenly my eye fell on \expndtw-1 my books heaped on a table, and the old distant civilisa\-\expndtw1 tion seemed for the moment inexpressibly dear.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "I must go\emdash at once. And you must come too. You cannot stay here. I tell you it is death. If you knew what I know you would be crying out with fear. How far is it \expndtw2 to Allermuir? Eight, fifteen miles; and then ten down \expndtw1 Glen Aller to Allerfoot, and then the railway. We must \expndtw-1 go together while it is daylight, and perhaps we may be \expndtw2 untouched. But quick, there is not a moment to lose." \expndtw-2 And I was on my shaky feet, and bustling among my \expndtw-4 possessions.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li293\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw8\fs23 "I'll gang wi' ye to the station," said the shepherd,\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3216\cf1\expndtw-1\fs22 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-16 189\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri58\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "for ye're clearly no fit to look after yourself. My sister \expndtw-1 will bide and keep the house. If naething has touched us \expndtw3 this ten year, naething will touch us the day."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "But you cannot stay. You are mad," I began; but he \expndtw5 cut me short with the words, "I trust in God."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "In any case let your sister come with us. I dare not \expndtw3 think of a woman alone in this place."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "I'll bide," said she. "I'm no feared as lang as I'm \expndtw3 indoors and there's steeks on the windies."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 So I packed my few belongings as best I could, tum\-\expndtw-1 bled my books into a haversack, and, gripping the shep\-\expndtw3 herd's arm nervously, crossed the threshold. The glen \expndtw1 was full of sunlight. There lay the long shining links of \expndtw3 the Farawa burn, the rough hills tumbled beyond, and \expndtw-1 far over all the scarred and distant forehead of the Mun-eraw. I had always looked on moorland country as the \expndtw0 freshest on earth\emdash clean, wholesome, and homely. But \expndtw2 now the fresh uplands seemed like a horrible pit. When \expndtw6 I looked to the hills my breath choked in my throat, \expndtw-1 and the feel of soft heather below my feet set my heart \expndtw-3 trembling.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 It was a slow journey to the inn at Allermuir. For one \expndtw-1 thing, no power on earth would draw me within sight of \expndtw0 the shieling of Carrickfey, so we had to cross a shoulder \expndtw-1 of hill and make our way down a difficult glen, and then \expndtw0 over a treacherous moss. The lochs were now gleaming \expndtw-1 like fretted silver; but to me, in my dreadful knowledge, \expndtw2 they seemed more eerie than on that grey day when I \expndtw0 came. At last my eyes were cheered by the sight of a \expndtw3 meadow and a fence; then we were on a little byroad; \expndtw2 and soon the fir-woods and corn-lands of Allercleuch were plain before us.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 The shepherd came no farther, but with brief good\-\expndtw2 bye turned his solemn face hillwards. I hired a trap and \expndtw-1 a man to drive, and down the ten miles of Glen Aller I \expndtw2 struggled to keep my thoughts from the past. I thought \expndtw-2 of the kindly South Country, of Oxford, of anything com\-\expndtw0 fortable and civilised. My driver pointed out the objects \expndtw5 of interest as in duty bound, but his words fell on \expndtw0 unheeding ears. At last he said something which roused \expndtw-1 me indeed to interest\emdash the interest of the man who hears \expndtw3 the word he fears most in the world. On the left side of\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx2030\cf1\expndtw-13\fs21 190\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i John Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri58\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 the river there suddenly sprang into view a long gloomy cleft in the hills, with a vista of dark mountains behind, \expndtw2 down which a stream of considerable size poured its \expndtw-3 waters.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "That is the Water o' Dule," said the man in a rever\-\expndtw-2 ent voice. "A graund water to fish, but dangerous to life, \expndtw1 for it's a' linns. Awa' at the heid they say there's a terri\-\expndtw-2 ble wild place called the Scarts o' Muneraw,\emdash that's a \expndtw1 shouther o' the muckle hill itsel' that ye see,\emdash but I've \expndtw2 never been there, and I never kent ony man that had \expndtw3 either."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 At the station, which is a mile from the village of All-erfoot, I found I had some hours to wait on my train for \expndtw-2 the south. I dared not trust myself for one moment alone, \expndtw-1 so I hung about the goods-shed, talked vacantly to the \expndtw1 porters, and when one went to the village for tea I \expndtw0 accompanied him, and to his wonder entertained him at the inn. When I returned I found on the platform a stray bagman who was that evening going to London. If there \expndtw2 is one class of men in the world which I heartily detest \expndtw0 it is this; but such was my state that I hailed him as a \expndtw-2 brother, and besought his company. I paid the difference \expndtw3 for a first-class fare, and had him in the carriage with \expndtw-1 me. He must have thought me an amiable maniac, for I talked in fits and starts, and when he fell asleep I would \expndtw0 wake him up and beseech him to speak to me. At way\-\expndtw-2 side stations I would pull down the blinds in case of rec\-\expndtw1 ognition, for to my unquiet mind the world seemed full \expndtw-2 of spies sent by that terrible Folk of the Hills. When the \expndtw0 train crossed a stretch of moor I would lie down on the \expndtw4 seat in case of shafts fired from the heather. And then at last with utter weariness I fell asleep, and woke \expndtw1 screaming about midnight to find myself well down in \expndtw-1 the cheerful English midlands, and red blast-furnaces blinking by the railway-side.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 In the morning I breakfasted in my rooms at St Chad's with a dawning sense of safety. I was in a different and calmer world. The lawn-like quadrangles, the great trees, \expndtw4 the cawing of rooks, and the homely twitter of spar\-\expndtw5 rows\emdash all seemed decent and settled and pleasing. \expndtw-2 Indoors the oak-panelled walls, the shelves of books, the \expndtw-1 pictures, the faint fragrance of tobacco, were very differ-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3216\cf1\expndtw-8\fs23 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-24 191\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri34\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 ent from the grimcrack adornments and the accursed \expndtw2 smell of peat and heather in that deplorable cottage. It \expndtw-3 was still vacation-time, so most of my friends were down; \expndtw0 but I spent the day hunting out the few cheerful pedants \expndtw1 to whom term and vacation were the same. It delighted \expndtw5 me to hear again their precise talk, to hear them make \expndtw-1 a boast of their work, and narrate the childish little acci\-\expndtw2 dents of their life. I yearned for the childish once more; \expndtw-2 I craved for women's drawing-rooms, and women's chat\-\expndtw1 ter, and everything which makes life an elegant game. God knows I had had enough of the other thing for a \expndtw-6 lifetime!\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 That night I shut myself in my rooms, barred my win\-\expndtw1 dows, drew my curtains, and made a great destruction. \expndtw-2 All books or pictures which recalled to me the moorlands were ruthlessly doomed. Novels, poems, treatises I flung \expndtw-1 into an old box, for sale to the second-hand bookseller. \expndtw1 Some prints and water-colour sketches I tore to pieces \expndtw-2 with my own hands. I ransacked my fishing-book, and \expndtw0 condemned all tackle for moorland waters to the flames. \expndtw3 I wrote a letter to my solicitors, bidding them go no further in the purchase of a place in Lome I had long \expndtw-1 been thinking of. Then, and not till then, did I feel the bondage of the past a little loosed from my shoulders. I \expndtw2 made myself a night-cap of rum-punch instead of my \expndtw-3 usual whisky-toddy, that all associations with that dismal \expndtw1 land might be forgotten, and to complete the renuncia\-\expndtw-1 tion I returned to cigars and flung my pipe into a drawer.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 But when I woke in the morning I found that it is \expndtw-1 hard to get rid of memories. My feet were still sore and \expndtw-2 wounded, and when I felt my arms cramped and reflected \expndtw0 on the causes, there was that black memory always near \expndtw1 to vex me.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 In a little term began, and my duties\emdash as deputy-pro\-\expndtw-2 fessor of Northern Antiquities\emdash were once more clamor\-ous. I can well believe that my hearers found my lectures strange, for instead of dealing with my favourite subjects and matters, which I might modestly say I had made my \expndtw-1 own, I confined myself to recondite and distant themes, \expndtw1 treating even these cursorily and dully. For the truth is, \expndtw5 my heart was no more in my subject. I hated\emdash or I \expndtw2 thought that I hated\emdash all things Northern with the viru-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx2030\cf1\expndtw-13\fs21 192\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i John Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri48\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 lence of utter fear. My reading was confined to science \expndtw-1 of the most recent kind, to abstruse philosophy, and to \expndtw-3 foreign classics. Anything which savoured of romance or \expndtw3 mystery was abhorrent; I pined for sharp outlines and \expndtw0 the tangibility of a high civilisation.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 All the term I threw myself into the most frivolous life \expndtw2 of the place. My Harrow school-days seemed to have \expndtw-1 come back to me. I had once been a fair cricketer, so I \expndtw-2 played again for my college, and made decent scores. I \expndtw0 coached an indifferent crew on the river. I fell into the \expndtw1 slang of the place, which I had hitherto detested. My \expndtw-2 former friends looked on me askance, as if some freakish changeling had possessed me. Formerly I had been ready for pedantic discussion, I had been absorbed in my work, \expndtw3 men had spoken of me as a rising scholar. Now I fled \expndtw-1 the very mention of things I had once delighted in. The \expndtw-2 Professor of Northern Antiquities, a scholar of European \expndtw1 reputation, meeting me once in the parks, embarked on \expndtw-2 an account of certain novel rings recently found in Scot\-\expndtw7 land, and to his horror found that, when he had got \expndtw-2 well under weigh, I had slipped off unnoticed. I heard \expndtw-1 afterwards that the good old man was found by a friend \expndtw-3 walking disconsolately with bowed head in the middle of \expndtw0 the High Street. Being rescued from among the horses' \expndtw1 feet, he could only murmur, "I am thinking of Graves, \expndtw4 poor man! And a year ago he was as sane as I am!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri5\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 But a man may not long deceive himself. I kept up the illusion valiantly for the term; but I felt instinctively that \expndtw-3 the fresh schoolboy life, which seemed to me the extreme \expndtw0 opposite to the ghoulish North, and as such the most \expndtw-1 desirable of things, was eternally cut off from me. No \expndtw-2 cunning affectation could ever dispel my real nature or \expndtw-1 efface the memory of a week. I realised miserably that \expndtw-2 sooner or later I must fight it out with my conscience. I \expndtw-4 began to call myself a coward. The chief thoughts of my \expndtw0 mind began to centre themselves more and more round \expndtw-2 that unknown life waiting to be explored among the unfathomable wilds.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 One day I met a friend\emdash an official in the British \expndtw-5 Museum\emdash who was full of some new theory about primi\-\expndtw0 tive habitations. To me it seemed inconceivably absurd;\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3206\cf1\expndtw-1\fs22 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 193\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri43\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 but he was strong in his confidence, and without flaw in \expndtw5 his evidence. The man irritated me, and I burned to \expndtw-4 prove him wrong, but I could think of no argument which \expndtw1 was final against his. Then it flashed upon me that my \expndtw3 own experience held the disproof; and without more \expndtw1 words I left him, hot, angry with myself, and tantalised \expndtw2 by the unattainable.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 I might relate my \i bona-fide \i0 experience, but would men \expndtw-2 believe me? I must bring proofs, I must complete my \expndtw1 researches, so as to make them incapable of disbelief. \expndtw3 And there in those deserts was waiting the key. There \expndtw-2 lay the greatest discovery of the century\emdash nay, of the \expndtw-1 millennium. There, too, lay the road to wealth such as I \expndtw3 had never dreamed of. Could I succeed, I should be \expndtw-1 famous for ever. I would revolutionise history and \expndtw2 anthropology; I would systematise folk-lore; I would \expndtw-2 show the world of men the pit whence they were digged \expndtw2 and the rock whence they were hewn.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 And then began a game of battledore between myself and my conscience.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "You are a coward," said my conscience.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "I am sufficiently brave," I would answer. "I have \expndtw-2 seen things and yet lived. The terror is more than mortal, \expndtw4 and I cannot face it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "You are a coward," said my conscience.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "I am not bound to go there again. It would be purely for my own aggrandisement if I went, and not for any \expndtw4 matter of duty."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Nevertheless you are a coward," said my conscience.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "In any case the matter can wait."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "You are a coward."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Then came one awful midsummer night, when I lay \expndtw1 sleepless and fought the thing out with myself. I knew that the strife was hopeless, that I should have no peace \expndtw-1 in this world again unless I made the attempt. The dawn \expndtw1 was breaking when I came to the final resolution; and \expndtw-2 when I rose and looked at my face in a mirror, lo! it was \expndtw2 white and lined and drawn like a man of sixty.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx2030\cf1\expndtw-12\fs21 194\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i John Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li888\sb226\cf1\b\fs18 CHAPTER VI.\i  \i0 SUMMER ON THE MOORS\cf0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri38\sb226\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The next morning I packed a bag with some changes of \expndtw0 clothing and a collection of notebooks, and went up to \expndtw-2 town. The first thing I did was to pay a visit to my solici\-\expndtw3 tors. "I am about to travel," said I, "and I wish to have \expndtw-1 all things settled in case any accident should happen to \expndtw3 me." So I arranged for the disposal of my property in \expndtw1 case of death, and added a codicil which puzzled the \expndtw-2 lawyers. If I did not return within six months, communi\-\expndtw1 cations were to be entered into with the shepherd at the \expndtw-3 shieling of Farawa\emdash post-town Allerfoot. If he could pro\-\expndtw0 duce any papers, they were to be put into the hands of certain friends, published, and the cost charged to my \expndtw1 estate. From my solicitors I went to a gun-maker's in \expndtw0 Regent Street and bought an ordinary six-chambered \expndtw-1 revolver, feeling much as a man must feel who proposed \expndtw-2 to cross the Atlantic in a skiff and purchased a small life\-\expndtw2 belt as a precaution.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 I took the night express to the North, and, for a mar\-\expndtw4 vel, I slept. When I woke about four we were on the \expndtw-2 verge of Westmoreland, and stony hills blocked the hori\-\expndtw-1 zon. At first I hailed the mountain-land gladly; sleep for the moment had caused forgetfulness of my terrors. But \expndtw4 soon a turn of the line brought me in full view of a heathery moor, running far to a confusion of distant peaks. I remembered my mission and my fate, and if \expndtw1 ever condemned criminal felt a more bitter regret I pity \expndtw-3 his case. Why should I alone among the millions of this \expndtw-1 happy isle be singled out as the repository of a ghastly \expndtw2 secret, and be cursed by a conscience which would not \expndtw4 let it rest?\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 I came to Allerfoot early in the forenoon, and got a trap to drive me up the valley. It was a lowering grey \expndtw-1 day, hot and yet sunless. A sort of heat-haze cloaked the \expndtw-2 hills, and every now and then a smurr of rain would meet \expndtw-1 us on the road, and in a minute be over. I felt wretchedly dispirited; and when at last the white-washed kirk of Allermuir came into sight and the broken-backed bridge of Aller, man's eyes seemed to have looked on no drear\-\expndtw1 ier scene since time began.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw8\fs23 I ate what meal I could get, for, fears or no, I was\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3211\cf1\expndtw-1\fs22 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 195\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\ri53\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 voraciously hungry. Then I asked the landlord to find me some man who would show me the road to Farawa. I \expndtw-1 demanded company, not for protection\emdash for what could two men do against such brutish strength?\emdash but to keep \expndtw1 my mind from its own thoughts.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 The man looked at me anxiously.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Are ye acquaint wi' the folks, then?" he asked.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 I said I was, that I had often stayed in the cottage.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Ye ken that they've a name for being queer. The man \expndtw3 never comes here forbye once or twice a-year, and he \expndtw2 has few dealings wi' other herds. He's got an ill name, \expndtw4 too, for losing sheep. I dinna like the country ava. Up \expndtw-1 by yon Muneraw\emdash no that I've ever been there, but I've \expndtw0 seen it afar off\emdash is enough to put a man daft for the rest \expndtw-1 o' his days. What's taking ye thereaways? It's no the time \expndtw1 for the fishing?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 I told him that I was a botanist going to explore certain \expndtw-1 hill-crevices for rare ferns. He shook his head, and then \expndtw-2 after some delay found me an ostler who would accom\-\expndtw3 pany me to the cottage.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 The man was a shock-headed, long-limbed fellow, with \expndtw0 fierce red hair and a humorous eye. He talked sociably \expndtw1 about his life, answered my hasty questions with deft\-\expndtw-1 ness, and beguiled me for the moment out of myself. I \expndtw1 passed the melancholy lochs, and came in sight of the \expndtw-1 great stony hills without the trepidation I had expected. \expndtw1 Here at my side was one who found some humour even in those uplands. But one thing I noted which brought \expndtw-1 back the old uneasiness. He took the road which led us \expndtw-2 farthest from Carrickfey, and when to try him I proposed \expndtw3 the other, he vetoed it with emphasis.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li53\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 After this his good spirits departed, and he grew \expndtw-3 distrustful.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "What mak's ye a freend o' the herd at Farawa?" he demanded a dozen times.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Finally, I asked him if he knew the man, and had seen \expndtw-1 him lately.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "I dinna ken him, and I hadna seen him for years till a fortnicht syne, when a' Allermuir saw him. He cam \expndtw0 doun one afternoon to the public-hoose, and begood to \expndtw1 drink. He had aye been kenned for a terrible godly kind \expndtw3 o' a man, so ye may believe folk wondered at this. But\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\tx2035\cf1\expndtw-13\fs23 196\expndtw0\tab\expndtw5\i John \b Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\b0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri43\sb211\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 when he had stuck to the drink for twae days, and filled \expndtw-2 himsel' blind-fou half-a-dozen o' times, he took a fit o' \expndtw2 repentance, and raved and blethered about siccan a life \expndtw4 as he led in the muirs. There was some said he was \expndtw2 speakin' serious, but maist thocht it was juist daftness."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "And what did he speak about?" I asked sharply.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "I canna verra weel tell ye. It was about some kind o' \expndtw-1 bogle that lived in the Muneraw\emdash that's the shouthers o't \expndtw3 ye see yonder\emdash and it seems that the bogle killed his \expndtw0 sheep and frichted himsel'. He was aye bletherin', too, \expndtw2 about something or somebody ca'd Grave; but oh! the \expndtw-4 man wasna wise." And my companion shook a contemp\-\expndtw2 tuous head.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 And then below us in the valley we saw the shieling, \expndtw2 with a thin shaft of smoke rising into the rainy grey \expndtw-1 weather. The man left me, sturdily refusing any fee. "I \expndtw1 wantit my legs stretched as weel as you. A walk in the hills is neither here nor there to a stoot man. When will \expndtw4 ye be back, sir?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li29\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The question was well-timed. "To-morrow fortnight," \expndtw3 I said, "and I want somebody from Allermuir to come \expndtw2 out here in the morning and carry some baggage. Will \expndtw5 you see to that?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 He said "Ay," and went off, while I scrambled down \expndtw-1 the hill to the cottage. Nervousness possessed me, and \expndtw3 though it was broad daylight and the whole place lay \expndtw-1 plain before me, I ran pell-mell, and did not stop till I \expndtw3 reached the door.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li38\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 The place was utterly empty. Unmade beds, unwashed \expndtw0 dishes, a hearth strewn with the ashes of peat, and dust \expndtw1 thick on everything, proclaimed the absence of inmates. \expndtw0 I began to be horribly frightened. Had the shepherd and \expndtw-2 his sister, also, disappeared? Was I left alone in the bleak place, with a dozen lonely miles between me and human \expndtw0 dwellings? I could not return alone; better this horrible \expndtw-1 place than the unknown perils of the out-of-doors. Hast\-ily I barricaded the door, and to the best of my power shuttered the windows; and then with dreary forebodings \expndtw4 I sat down to wait on fortune.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 In a little I heard a long swinging step outside and the sound of dogs. Joyfully I opened the latch, and there was\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3206\cf1\expndtw-6\fs23 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-21 197\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri48\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 the shepherd's grim face waiting stolidly on what might \expndtw0 appear.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 At the sight of me he stepped back. "What in the \expndtw4 Lord's name are ye daein' here?" he asked. "Didna ye \expndtw2 get enough afore?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "Come in," I said, sharply. "I want to talk."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 In he came with those blessed dogs,\emdash what a comfort \expndtw2 it was to look on their great honest faces! He sat down \expndtw3 on the untidy bed and waited.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "I came because I could not stay away. I saw too much \expndtw0 to give me any peace elsewhere. I must go back, even \expndtw1 though I risk my life for it. The cause of scholarship \expndtw3 demands it as well as the cause of humanity."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Is that a' the news ye hae?" he said. "Weel, I've mair to tell ye. Three weeks syne my sister Margit was lost, \expndtw4 and I've never seen her mair."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 My jaw fell, and I could only stare at him.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "I cam hame from the hill at nightfa' and she was gone. I lookit for her up hill and doun, but I couldna \expndtw3 find her. Syne I think I went daft. I went to the Scarts and huntit them up and doun, but no sign could I see. \expndtw-1 The folk can bide quiet enough when they want. Syne I went to Allermuir and drank mysel' blind,\emdash me, that's a \expndtw4 God-fearing man and a saved soul; but the Lord help \expndtw0 me, I didna ken what I was at. That's my news, and day \expndtw1 and nicht I wander thae hills, seekin' for what I canna find."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "But, man, are you mad?" I cried. "Surely there are \expndtw1 neighbours to help you. There is a law in the land, and \expndtw-3 you had only to find the nearest police-office and compel \expndtw3 them to assist you."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "What guid can man dae?" he asked. "An army o' \expndtw-2 sodgers couldna find that hidy-hole. Forby, when I went \expndtw3 into Allermuir wi' my story the folk thocht me daft. It \expndtw-2 was that set me drinking, for\emdash the Lord forgive me!\emdash I wasna my ain maister. I threepit till I was hairse, but the \expndtw1 bodies just lauch'd." And he lay back on the bed like a man mortally tired.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Grim though the tidings were, I can only say that my \expndtw2 chief feeling was of comfort. Pity for the new tragedy \expndtw-2 had swallowed up my fear. I had now a purpose, and a \expndtw3 purpose, too, not of curiosity but of mercy.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\tx2030\cf1\expndtw-16\fs23 198\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4\i John \b Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\b0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri62\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I go to-morrow morning to the Muneraw. But first I \expndtw2 want to give you something to do." And I drew roughly a chart of the place on the back of a letter. "Go into \expndtw-1 Allermuir to-morrow, and give this paper to the landlord \expndtw2 at the inn. The letter will tell him what to do. He is to \expndtw4 raise at once all the men he can get, and come to the \expndtw1 place on the chart marked with a cross. Tell him life \expndtw3 depends on his hurry."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The shepherd nodded. "D'ye ken the Folk are watch\-\expndtw-2 ing for you? They let me pass without trouble, for they've \expndtw1 nae use for me, but I see fine they're seeking you. Ye'll \expndtw4 no gang half a mile the morn afore they grip ye."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "So much the better," I said. "That will take me \expndtw5 quicker to the place I want to be at."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw12\fs23 "And I'm to gang to Allermuir the morn," he \expndtw0 repeated, with the air of a child conning a lesson. "But \expndtw3 what if they'll no believe me?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "They'll believe the letter."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Maybe," he said, and relapsed into a doze.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 I set myself to put that house in order, to rouse the \expndtw-1 fire, and prepare some food. It was dismal work; and meantime outside the night darkened, and a great wind \expndtw1 rose, which howled round the walls and lashed the rain \expndtw0 on the windows.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li845\sb221\cf1\expndtw3\fs19 CHAPTER VII. IN \i TUAS MANUS, DOMINE!\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li48\ri19\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 I\i  \i0 had not gone twenty yards from the cottage door ere I knew I was watched. I had left the shepherd still dozing, \expndtw1 in the half-conscious state of a dazed and broken man. \expndtw-2 All night the wind had wakened me at intervals, and now \expndtw6 in the half-light of morn the weather seemed more \expndtw-3 vicious than ever. The wind cut my ears, the whole firma\-\expndtw-1 ment was full of the rendings and thunders of the storm. \expndtw2 Rain fell in blinding sheets, the heath was a marsh, and \expndtw0 it was the most I could do to struggle against the hurri\-cane which stopped my breath. And all the while I knew \expndtw4 I was not alone in the desert.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 All men know\emdash in imagination or in experience\emdash the \expndtw-1 sensation of being spied on. The nerves tingle, the skin \expndtw4 grows hot and prickly, and there is a queer sinking of \expndtw2 the heart. Intensify this common feeling a hundredfold,\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3216\cf1\expndtw-6\fs23 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-21 199\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri48\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 and you get a tenth part of what I suffered. I am telling \expndtw-2 a plain tale, and record bare physical facts. My lips stood \expndtw4 out from my teeth as I heard, or felt, a rustle in the \expndtw-2 heather, a scraping among stones. Some subtle magnetic \expndtw-3 link seemed established between my body and the myste\-\expndtw0 rious world around. I became sick\emdash acutely sick\emdash with the ceaseless apprehension.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 My fright became so complete that when I turned a corner of rock, or stepped in deep heather, I seemed to \expndtw3 feel a body rub against me. This continued all the way \expndtw0 up the Farawa water, and then up its feeder to the little \expndtw-2 lonely loch. It kept me from looking forward; but it like\-\expndtw3 wise kept me in such a sweat of fright that I was ready \expndtw-1 to faint. Then the notion came upon me to test this fancy \expndtw-3 of mine. If I was tracked thus closely, clearly the trackers \expndtw0 would bar my way if I turned back. So I wheeled round \expndtw2 and walked a dozen paces down the glen.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Nothing stopped me. I was about to turn again, when \expndtw0 something made me take six more paces. At the fourth \expndtw5 something rustled in the heather, and my neck was \expndtw-1 gripped as in a vice. I had already made up my mind on \expndtw-2 what I would do. I would be perfectly still, I would con\-\expndtw3 quer my fear, and let them do as they pleased with me \expndtw4 so long as they took me to their dwelling. But at the \expndtw-1 touch of the hands my resolutions fled. I struggled and screamed. Then something was clapped on my mouth, speech and strength went from me, and once more I was \expndtw2 back in the maudlin childhood of terror.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri10\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 In the cave it was always a dusky twilight. I seemed \expndtw4 to be lying in the same place, with the same dull glare \expndtw-2 of firelight far off, and the same close stupefying smell. \expndtw3 One of the creatures was standing silently at my side, \expndtw0 and I asked him some trivial question. He turned and \expndtw1 shambled down the passage, leaving me alone.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Then he returned with another, and they talked their guttural talk to me. I scarcely listened till I remembered that in a sense I was here of my own accord, and on a \expndtw1 definite mission. The purport of their speech seemed to \expndtw0 be that, now I had returned, I must beware of a second \expndtw3 flight. Once I had been spared; a second time I should \expndtw1 be killed without mercy.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li38\tx2074\cf1\expndtw-7\fs21 200\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i John Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri62\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 I assented gladly. The Folk, then, had some use for me. I felt my errand prospering.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li48\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Then the old creature which I had seen before crept \expndtw4 out of some corner and squatted beside me. He put a \expndtw1 claw on my shoulder, a horrible, corrugated, skeleton thing, hairy to the finger-tips and nailless. He grinned, \expndtw-1 too, with toothless gums, and his hideous old voice was \expndtw2 like a file on sandstone.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 I asked questions, but he would only grin and jabber, \expndtw-2 looking now and then furtively over his shoulder towards \expndtw2 the fire.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li62\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 I coaxed and humoured him, till he launched into a \expndtw2 narrative of which 1 could make nothing. It seemed a \expndtw3 mere string of names, with certain words repeated at \expndtw1 fixed intervals. Then it flashed on me that this might be \expndtw0 a religious incantation. I had discovered remnants of a \expndtw-2 ritual and a mythology among them. It was possible that \expndtw2 these were sacred days, and that I had stumbled upon \expndtw1 some rude celebration.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li77\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 I caught a word or two and repeated them. He looked at me curiously. Then I asked him some leading ques\-\expndtw-1 tion, and he replied with clearness. My guess was right. The midsummer week was the holy season of the year, \expndtw1 when sacrifices were offered to the gods.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi288\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 The notion of sacrifices disquieted me, and I would \expndtw4 fain have asked further. But the creature would speak \expndtw-1 no more. He hobbled off, and left me alone in the rock-chamber to listen to a strange sound which hung cease\-\expndtw5 lessly about me. It must be the storm without, like a \expndtw1 pack of artillery rattling among the crags. A storm of \expndtw5 storms surely, for the place echoed and hummed, and to my unquiet eye the very rock of the roof seemed to \expndtw-5 , shake!\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li96\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Apparently my existence was forgotten, for I lay long \expndtw1 before any one returned. Then it was merely one who \expndtw0 brought food, the same strange meal as before, and left \expndtw2 hastily. When I had eaten I rose and stretched myself. \expndtw-2 My hands and knees still quivered nervously; but I was \expndtw-1 strong and perfectly well in body. The empty, desolate, \expndtw1 tomb-like place was eerie enough to scare any one; but \expndtw-2 its emptiness was comfort when I thought of its inmates. \expndtw8 Then I wandered down the passage towards the fire\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3192\cf1\expndtw-3\fs22 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-14 201\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri43\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 which was burning in loneliness. Where had the Folk gone? I puzzled over their disappearance.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Suddenly sounds began to break on my ear, coming \expndtw0 from some inner chamber at the end of that in which the \expndtw3 fire burned. I could scarcely see for the smoke; but I \expndtw-1 began to make my way towards the noise, feeling along \expndtw2 the sides of rock. Then a second gleam of light seemed \expndtw0 to rise before me, and I came to an aperture in the wall \expndtw2 which gave entrance to another room.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 This in turn was full of smoke and glow\emdash a murky \expndtw2 orange glow, as if from some strange flame of roots. \expndtw1 There were the squat moving figures, running in wild \expndtw-1 antics round the fire. I crouched in the entrance, terrified \expndtw0 and yet curious, till I saw something beyond the blaze which held me dumb. Apart from the others and tied to \expndtw3 some stake in the wall was a woman's figure, and the \expndtw2 face was the face of the shepherd's sister.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 My first impulse was flight. I must get away and \expndtw1 think,\emdash plan, achieve some desperate way of escape. I \expndtw3 sped back to the silent chamber as if the gang were at \expndtw-2 my heels. It was still empty, and I stood helplessly in the centre, looking at the impassable walls of rock as a wea\-\expndtw0 ried beast may look at the walls of its cage. I bethought me of the way I had escaped before and rushed thither, \expndtw-1 only to find it blocked by a huge contrivance of stone. \expndtw-2 Yards and yards of solid rock were between me and the upper air, and yet through it all came the crash and whis\-\expndtw-1 tle of the storm. If I were at my wits' end in this inner \expndtw2 darkness, there was also high commotion among the \expndtw3 powers of the air in that upper world.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 As I stood I heard the soft steps of my tormentors. \expndtw-1 They seemed to think I was meditating escape, for they \expndtw5 flung themselves on me and bore me to the ground. I \expndtw-3 did not struggle, and when they saw me quiet, they squat\-\expndtw-1 ted round and began to speak. They told me of the holy \expndtw-3 season and its sacrifices. At first I could not follow them; \expndtw2 then when I caught familiar words I found some clue, \expndtw1 and they became intelligible. They spoke of a woman, \expndtw3 and I asked, "What woman?" With all frankness they \expndtw-4 told me of the custom which prevailed\emdash how every twen\-\expndtw0 tieth summer a woman was sacrificed to some devilish \expndtw3 god, and by the hand of one of the stranger race. I said\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2040\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 202\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i John Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\ri72\sb211\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 nothing, but my whitening face must have told them a \expndtw-1 tale, though I strove hard to keep my composure. I asked \expndtw-2 if they had found the victims. "She is in this place," they \expndtw4 said; "and as for the man, thou art he." And with this \expndtw2 they left me.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri58\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 I had still some hours; so much I gathered from their \expndtw2 talk, for the sacrifice was at sunset. Escape was cut off \expndtw0 for ever. I have always been something of a fatalist, and \expndtw-2 at the prospect of the irrevocable end my cheerfulness \expndtw4 returned. I had my pistol, for they had taken nothing \expndtw1 from me. I took out the little weapon and fingered it \expndtw-2 lovingly. Hope of the lost, refuge of the vanquished, ease \expndtw1 to the coward,\emdash blessed be he who first conceived it!\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 The time dragged on, the minutes grew to hours, and \expndtw3 still I was left solitary. Only the mad violence of the \expndtw2 storm broke the quiet. It had increased in violence, for \expndtw0 the stones at the mouth of the exit by which I had for\-\expndtw-2 merly escaped seemed to rock with some external pres\-sure, and cutting shafts of wind slipped past and cleft the heat of the passage. What a sight the ravine outside must \expndtw5 be, I thought, set in the forehead of a great hill, and \expndtw-2 swept clean by every breeze! Then came a crashing, and \expndtw2 the long hollow echo of a fall. The rocks are splitting, \expndtw-1 said I; the road down the corrie will be impassable now \expndtw2 and for evermore.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li62\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 I began to grow weak with the nervousness of the wait\-\expndtw-3 ing, and by-and-by I lay down and fell into a sort of doze. \expndtw-1 When I next knew consciousness I was being roused by two of the Folk, and bidden get ready. I stumbled to my \expndtw-2 feet, felt for the pistol in the hollow of my sleeve, and \expndtw1 prepared to follow.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li77\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 When we came out into the wider chamber the noise \expndtw-1 of the storm was deafening. The roof rang like a shield \expndtw4 which has been struck. I noticed, perturbed as I was, \expndtw-1 that my guards cast anxious eyes around them, alarmed, \expndtw1 like myself, at the murderous din. Nor was the world \expndtw-1 quieter when we entered the last chamber, where the fire \expndtw1 burned and the remnant of the Folk waited. Wind had \expndtw2 found an entrance from somewhere or other, and the \expndtw3 flames blew here and there, and the smoke gyrated in odd circles. At the back, and apart from the rest, I saw\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3202\cf1\expndtw-2\fs22 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-14 203\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri53\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 the dazed eyes and the white old drawn face of the \expndtw-6 woman.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li10\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 They led me up beside her to a place where there was \expndtw5 a rude flat stone, hollowed in the centre, and on it a \expndtw-1 rusty iron knife, which seemed once to have formed part \expndtw-2 of a scythe-blade. Then I saw the ceremonial which was \expndtw6 marked out for me. It was the very rite which I had \expndtw0 dimly figured as current among a rude people, and even \expndtw7 in that moment I had something of the scholar's \expndtw-3 satisfaction.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 The oldest of the Folk, who seemed to be a sort of \expndtw0 priest, came to my side and mumbled a form of words. \expndtw-1 His fetid breath sickened me; his dull eyes, glassy like a \expndtw0 brute's with age, brought my knees together. He put the \expndtw-2 knife in my hands, dragged the terror-stricken woman \expndtw4 forward to the altar, and bade me begin.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 I began by sawing her bonds through. When she felt \expndtw0 herself free she would have fled back, but stopped when \expndtw1 I bade her. At that moment there came a noise of rend\-\expndtw-2 ing and crashing as if the hills were falling, and for one \expndtw-1 second the eyes of the Folk were averted from the frus\-trated sacrifice.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Only for a moment. The next they saw what I had \expndtw1 done, and with one impulse rushed towards me. Then \expndtw2 began the last scene in the play. I sent a bullet through \expndtw-1 the right eye of the first thing that came on. The second \expndtw1 shot went wide; but the third shattered the hand of an \expndtw-2 elderly ruffian with a cruel club. Never for an instant did \expndtw0 they stop, and now they were clutching at me. I pushed the woman behind, and fired three rapid shots in blind \expndtw1 panic, and then, clutching the scythe, I struck right and \expndtw2 left like a madman.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Suddenly I saw the foreground sink before my eyes. \expndtw-2 The roof sloped down, and with a sickening hiss a moun\-tain of rock and earth seemed to precipitate itself on my \expndtw1 assailants. One, nipped in the middle by a rock, caught \expndtw-2 my eye by his hideous writhings. Two only remained in what was now a little suffocating chamber, with embers \expndtw2 from the fire still smoking on the floor.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The woman caught me by the hand and drew me with \expndtw6 her, while the two seemed mute with fear. "There's a\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2035\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 204\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i John Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sb216\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw11\fs23 road at the back," she screamed. "I ken it. I fand it \expndtw4 out." And she pulled me up a narrow hole in the rock.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri43\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 How long we climbed I do not know. We were both \expndtw3 fighting for air, with the tightness of throat and chest, \expndtw-2 and the craziness of limb which mean suffocation. I can\-\expndtw-1 not tell when we first came to the surface, but I remem\-\expndtw3 ber the woman, who seemed to have the strength of \expndtw1 extreme terror, pulling me from the edge of a crevasse \expndtw2 and laying me on a flat rock. It seemed to be the depth \expndtw0 of winter, with sheer-falling rain and a wind that shook \expndtw-1 the hills.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Then I was once more myself and could look about \expndtw-3 me. From my feet yawned a sheer abyss, where once had \expndtw3 been a hill-shoulder. Some great mass of rock on the \expndtw1 brow of the mountain had been loosened by the storm, \expndtw-2 and in its fall had caught the lips of the ravine and swept \expndtw-3 the nest of dwellings into a yawning pit. Beneath a moun\-\expndtw-1 tain of rubble lay buried that life on which I had thought \expndtw1 to build my fame.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 My feeling\emdash Heaven help me!\emdash was not thankfulness \expndtw1 for God's mercy and my escape, but a bitter mad regret. \expndtw-1 I rushed frantically to the edge, and when I saw only the \expndtw4 blackness of darkness I wept weak tears. All the time \expndtw-1 the storm was tearing at my body, and I had to grip hard \expndtw3 by hand and foot to keep my place.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Suddenly on the brink of the ravine I saw a third fig\-\expndtw-2 ure. We two were not the only fugitives. One of the Folk \expndtw0 had escaped.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 The thought put new life into me, for I had lost the \expndtw-2 first fresh consciousness of terror. There still remained a relic of the vanished life. Could I but make the thing my \expndtw0 prisoner, there would be proof in my hands to overcome \expndtw-1 a sceptical world.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 I ran to it, and to my surprise the thing as soon as it \expndtw-2 saw me rushed to meet me. At first I thought it was with some instinct of self-preservation, but when I saw its eyes \expndtw0 I knew the purpose of fight. Clearly one or other should \expndtw3 go no more from the place.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li67\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 We were some ten yards from the brink when I grap\-\expndtw5 pled with it. Dimly I heard the woman scream with \expndtw-1 fright, and saw her scramble across the hillside. Then we\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3202\cf1\expndtw-1\fs22 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-14 205\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri43\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 were tugging in a death-throe, the hideous smell of the thing in my face, its red eyes burning into mine, and its \expndtw1 hoarse voice muttering. Its strength seemed incredible; \expndtw7 but I, too, am no weakling. We tugged and strained, \expndtw-1 its nails biting into my flesh, while I choked its throat \expndtw4 unsparingly. Every second I dreaded lest we should \expndtw0 plunge together over the ledge, for it was thither my \expndtw3 adversary tried to draw me. I caught my heel in a nick \expndtw2 of rock, and pulled madly against it.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 And then, while I was beginning to glory with the pride \expndtw-1 of conquest, my hope was dashed in pieces. The thing \expndtw5 seemed to break from my arms, and, as if in despair, \expndtw0 cast itself headlong into the impenetrable darkness. I \expndtw-1 stumbled blindly after it, saved myself on the brink, and \expndtw2 fell back, sick and ill, into a merciful swoon.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sb230\cf1\b\fs18 CHAPTER VIII. NOTE IN CONCLUSION BY THE EDITOR\cf0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li29\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 At this point the narrative of my unfortunate friend, Mr. \expndtw2 Graves of St Chad's, breaks off abruptly. He wrote it \expndtw0 shortly before his death, and was prevented from com\-\expndtw-3 pleting it by the shock of apoplexy which carried him off. \expndtw-1 In accordance with the instructions in his will, I have \expndtw0 prepared it for publication, and now in much fear and \expndtw-1 hesitation give it to the world. First, however, I must \expndtw-2 supplement it by such facts as fall within my knowledge. \expndtw0 The shepherd seems to have gone to Allermuir and by \expndtw2 the help of the letter convinced the inhabitants. A body \expndtw0 of men was collected under the landlord, and during the \expndtw5 afternoon set out for the hills. But unfortunately the \expndtw-1 great midsummer storm\emdash the most terrible of recent cli\-\expndtw0 matic disturbances\emdash had filled the mosses and streams, \expndtw3 and they found themselves unable to proceed by any direct road. Ultimately late in the evening they arrived at the cottage of Farawa, only to find there a raving \expndtw-1 woman, the shepherd's sister, who seemed crazy with \expndtw3 brain-fever. She told some rambling story about her \expndtw5 escape, but her narrative said nothing of Mr. Graves. \expndtw-1 So they treated her with what skill they possessed, and \expndtw0 sheltered for the night in and around the cottage. Next \expndtw3 morning the storm had abated a little, and the woman \expndtw7 had recovered something of her wits. From her they\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2040\cf1\expndtw-6\fs21 206\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i John Buchan\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri38\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 learned that Mr. Graves was lying in a ravine on the side \expndtw1 of the Muneraw in imminent danger of his life. A body \expndtw4 set out to find him; but so immense was the landslip, \expndtw-1 and so dangerous the whole mountain, that it was nearly \expndtw-2 evening when they recovered him from the ledge of rock. He was alive, but unconscious, and on bringing him back \expndtw0 to the cottage it was clear that he was, indeed, very ill. There he lay for three months, while the best skill that \expndtw-2 could be got was procured for him. By dint of an uncom\-\expndtw-1 mon toughness of constitution he survived; but it was an \expndtw1 old and feeble man who returned to Oxford in the early \expndtw-2 winter.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The shepherd and his sister immediately left the coun\-\expndtw2 tryside, and were never more heard of, unless they are \expndtw0 the pair of unfortunates who are at present in a Scottish \expndtw2 pauper asylum, incapable of remembering even their names. The people who last spoke with them declared \expndtw-1 that their minds seemed weakened by a great shock, and \expndtw0 that it was hopeless to try to get any connected or ratio\-\expndtw1 nal statement.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li34\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The career of my poor friend from that hour was little short of a tragedy. He awoke from his illness to find the \expndtw-2 world incredulous; even the country-folk of Allermuir set \expndtw6 down the story to the shepherd's craziness and my \expndtw-1 friend's credulity. In Oxford his argument was received \expndtw1 with polite scorn. An account of his experiences which \expndtw2 he drew up for the "Times" was refused by the editor; and an article on "Primitive Peoples of the North," \expndtw-2 embodying what he believed to be the result of his dis\-coveries, was unanimously rejected by every responsible \expndtw-1 journal in Europe. Whether he was soured by such treat\-\expndtw1 ment, or whether his brain had already been weakened, \expndtw0 he became a morose silent man, and for the two years \expndtw3 before his death had few friends and no society. From \expndtw0 the obituary notice in the "Times" I take the following \expndtw-3 paragraph, which shows in what light the world had come \expndtw2 to look upon him:\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "At the outset of his career he was regarded as a rising \expndtw-3 scholar in one department of archaeology, and his Taffert \expndtw1 lectures were a real contribution to an obscure subject. \expndtw2 But in after-life he was led into fantastic speculations; \expndtw3 and when he found himself unable to convince his col-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3202\cf1\expndtw-4\fs22 NO MAN'S LAND\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-11 207\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri38\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 leagues, he gradually retired into himself, and lived prac\-\expndtw5 tically a hermit's life till his death. His career, thus \expndtw1 broken short, is a sad instance of the fascination which \expndtw4 the recondite and the quack can exercise even on men \expndtw2 of approved ability."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 And now his own narrative is published, and the world \expndtw0 can judge as it pleases about the amazing romance. The \expndtw-2 view which will doubtless find general acceptance is that \expndtw0 the whole is a figment of the brain, begotten of some \expndtw-1 harmless moorland adventure and the company of such \expndtw4 religious maniacs as the shepherd and his sister. But \expndtw-2 some who knew the former sobriety and calmness of my \expndtw-1 friend's mind may be disposed timorously and with deep hesitation to another verdict. They may accept the narra\-\expndtw0 tive, and believe that somewhere in those moorlands he \expndtw2 met with a horrible primitive survival, passed through \expndtw0 the strangest adventure, and had his finger on an epoch-\expndtw-2 making discovery. In this case they will be inclined to \expndtw-1 sympathise with the loneliness and misunderstanding of \expndtw2 his latter days. It is not for me to decide the question. \expndtw6 That which alone could bring proof is buried beneath \expndtw2 a thousand tons of rock in the midst of an untrodden \expndtw-1 desert.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li3624\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw8\scaps\fs23 john buchan.\cf0\expndtw0\scaps0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li14\cf1\expndtw-12\fs42 THE PRISM\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb230\cf1\i\fs34 By Mary E. Wilkins\cf0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li19\ri5\sb1498\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 There had been much rain that season, and the vegeta\-\expndtw-2 tion was almost tropical. The wayside growths were jun\-\expndtw-1 gles to birds and insects, and very near them to humans. All through the long afternoon of the hot August day, \expndtw4 Diantha Fielding lay flat on her back under the lee of \expndtw1 the stone wall which bordered her stepfather's, Zenas \expndtw2 May's, south mowing-lot. It was pretty warm there, \expndtw0 although she lay in a little strip of shade of the tangle of \expndtw-2 blackberry-vines, poison-ivy, and the gray pile of stones; \expndtw0 but the girl loved the heat. She experienced the gentle \expndtw4 languor which is its best effect, instead of the fierce \expndtw-1 unrest and irritation which is its worst. She left that to rattlesnakes and nervous women. As for her, in times of \expndtw0 extreme heat, she hung over life with tremulous flutters, \expndtw-1 like a butterfly over a rose, moving only enough to pre\-serve her poise in the scheme of things, and realizing to \expndtw3 the full the sweetness of all about her.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 She heard, as she lay there, the voice of a pine-tree \expndtw-3 not far away\emdash a solitary pine which was full of gusty sweetness; she smelled the wild grapes, which were reluc\-\expndtw0 tantly ripening across the field over the wall that edged \expndtw1 the lane; she smelled the blackberry-vines; she looked with indolent fascination at the virile sprays of poison-\expndtw-2 ivy. It was like innocence surveying sin, and wondering \expndtw-1 what it was like. Once her stepmother, Mrs. Zenas May, \expndtw3 had been poisoned with ivy, and both eyes had been \expndtw5 closed thereby. Diantha did not believe that the ivy \expndtw2 would so serve her. She dared herself to touch it, then \expndtw0 she looked away again.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs23 She heard a far-carrying voice from the farm-house at\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li58\sb77\qc\cf1\expndtw-16\fs23 208\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2899\cf1\fs22 THE PRISM\tab\expndtw-14 209\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri34\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 the left calling her name. "Diantha! Diantha!" She lay \expndtw-2 so still that she scarcely breathed. The voice came again. \expndtw-1 She smiled triumphantly. She knew perfectly well what \expndtw0 was wanted: that she should assist in preparing supper. \expndtw-1 Her stepmother's married daughter and her two children \expndtw5 were visiting at the house. She preferred remaining \expndtw3 where she was. Her sole fear of disturbance was from the children. They were like little ferrets. Diantha did \expndtw-1 not like them. She did not like children very well under \expndtw2 any circumstances. To her they seemed always out of \expndtw1 tune; the jar of heredity was in them, and she felt it, \expndtw2 although she did not know enough to realize what she \expndtw-1 felt. She was only twelve years old, a child still, though \expndtw2 tall for her age.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li24\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The voice came again. Diantha shifted her position a \expndtw2 little; she stretched her slender length luxuriously; she \expndtw3 felt for something which hung suspended around her \expndtw4 neck under her gingham waist, but she did not then \expndtw0 remove it. "Diantha! Diantha!" came the insistent voice.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Diantha lay as irresponsive as the blackberry-vine \expndtw-2 which trailed beside her like a snake. Then she heard the \expndtw1 house door close with a bang; her ears were acute. She \expndtw-3 felt again of that which was suspended from her neck. A \expndtw1 curious expression of daring, of exultation, of fear, was \expndtw-2 in her face. Presently she heard the shrill voices of chil\-\expndtw-1 dren; then she lay so still that she seemed fairly to oblit\-\expndtw0 erate herself by silence and motionlessness.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Two little girls in pink frocks came racing past; their \expndtw0 flying heels almost touched her, but they never saw her.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 When they were well past, she drew a cautious breath, \expndtw3 and felt again of the treasure around her neck.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 After a while she heard the soft padding of many hoofs \expndtw4 in the heavy dust of the road, a dog's shrill bark, the \expndtw-3 tinkle of a bell, the absent-minded shout of a weary man. The hired man was driving the cows home. The fragrance \expndtw-1 of milk-dripping udders, of breaths sweetened with clo\-\expndtw3 ver and meadow-grass, came to her. Suddenly a cold \expndtw-1 nose rubbed against her face; the dog had found her out. \expndtw-2 But she was a friend of his. She patted him, then pushed him away gently, and he understood that she wished to \expndtw4 remain concealed. He went barking back to the man. \expndtw1 The cows broke into a clumsy gallop; the man shouted.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1896\cf1\expndtw-5\fs23 210\expndtw0\tab\expndtw5\i Mary E. Wilkins\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri29\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Diantha smelled the dust of the road which flew over the \expndtw-1 field like smoke. She heard the children returning down \expndtw-2 the road behind the cows. When the cows galloped, they screamed with half-fearful delight. Then it all passed by, \expndtw2 and she heard the loud clang of a bell from the farm\-\expndtw-2 house.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li10\ri19\sb5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Then Diantha pulled out the treasure which was sus\-\expndtw4 pended from her neck by an old blue ribbon, and she \expndtw2 held it up to the low western sun, and wonderful lights \expndtw-1 of red and blue and violet and green and orange danced over the shaven stubble of the field before her delighted \expndtw-2 eyes. It was a prism which she had stolen from the best-parlor lamp\emdash from the lamp which had been her own mother's, bought by her with her school-teaching money \expndtw5 before her marriage, and brought by her to grace her \expndtw-1 new home.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Diantha Fielding, as far as relatives went, was in a \expndtw3 curious position. First her mother died when she was \expndtw-1 very young, only a few months old; then her father had \expndtw1 married again, giving her a stepmother; then her father \expndtw-1 had died two years later, and her stepmother had married again, giving her a stepfather. Since then the stepmother \expndtw3 had died, and the stepfather had married a widow with \expndtw-1 a married daughter, whose two children had raced down \expndtw0 the road behind the cows. Diantha often felt in a sore \expndtw-2 bewilderment of relationships. She had not even a cousin \expndtw-1 of her own; the dearest relative she had was the daughter \expndtw0 of a widow whom a cousin of her mother's had married \expndtw-1 for a second wife. The cousin was long since dead. The \expndtw1 wife was living, and Diantha's little step second cousin, \expndtw-2 as she reckoned it, lived in the old homestead which had \expndtw0 belonged to Diantha's grandfather, across the way from \expndtw-3 the May farm-house. It was a, gambrel-roof, half-ruinous \expndtw0 structure, well banked in front with a monstrous growth \expndtw3 of lilacs, and overhung by a great butternut-tree.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Diantha knew well that she was heaping up vials of \expndtw3 cold wrath upon her head by not obeying the supper-\expndtw-2 bell, but she lay still. Then Libby came\emdash Libby, the little \expndtw3 cousin, stepping very cautiously and daintily; for she \expndtw-3 wore slippers of her mother's, which hung from her small \expndtw2 heels, and she had lost them twice already.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 She stopped before Diantha. Her slender arms, termi-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2904\cf1\fs22 THE PRISM\tab\expndtw-19 211\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri38\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 nating in hands too large for them, hung straight at her \expndtw-3 sides in the folds of her faded blue-flowered muslin. Her \expndtw-1 pretty little heat-flushed face had in it no more specula\-\expndtw2 tion than a flower, and no more changing. She was like \expndtw-1 a flower, which would blossom the same next year, and the next year after that, and the same until it died. There was no speculation in her face as she looked at Diantha \expndtw-3 dangling the prism in the sunlight, merely unimaginative \expndtw1 wonder and admiration.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "It's a drop off your best-parlor lamp," said she, in \expndtw1 her thin, sweet voice.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Look over the field, Libby!" cried Diantha, excitedly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Libby looked.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Tell me what you see, quick!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "What I see? Why, grass and things."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "No, I don't mean them; what you see from this."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Diantha shook the prism violently.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "I see a lot of different colors dancing," replied Libby, \expndtw-1 "same as you always see. Addie Green had an ear-drop \expndtw0 that was broken off their best-parlor lamp. Her mother \expndtw4 gave it to her."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Don't you see anything but different lights?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Of course I don't. That's all there is to see."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Diantha sighed.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "That drop ain't broken," said the other little girl. \expndtw6 "How did she happen to let you have it?" By "she" \expndtw2 Libby meant Diantha's stepmother.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "I took it," replied Diantha. She was fastening the \expndtw2 prism around her neck again.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Libby gasped and stared at her. "Didn't you ask her?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "If I'd asked her, she'd said no, and it was my own \expndtw5 mother's lamp. I had a right to it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "What'll she do to you?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "I don't know, if she finds out. I sha'n't tell her, if I \expndtw2 can help it without lying."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Diantha fastened her gingham frock securely over the \expndtw-2 prism. Then she rose, and the two little girls went home \expndtw2 across the dry stubble of the field.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "I didn't go when she called me, and I didn't go when \expndtw2 the supper-bell rang," said Diantha.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Libby stared at her wonderingly. She had never felt an \expndtw0 impulse to disobedience in her life; she could not under-\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1891\cf1\expndtw-5\fs23 212\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4\i Mary E. Wilkins\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri53\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 stand this other child, who was a law unto herself. She \expndtw1 walked very carefully in her large slippers.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "What'll she do to you?" she inquired.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Diantha tossed her head like a colt.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li5\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "She won't do anything, I guess, except make me go \expndtw-1 without my supper. If she does, I ain't afraid; but I guess \expndtw2 she won't, and I'd a heap rather go without my supper \expndtw6 than go to it when I don't want to."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Libby looked at her with admiring wonder. Diantha \expndtw-2 was neatly and rigorously, rather than tastefully, dressed. \expndtw1 Her dark blue-and-white gingham frock was starched \expndtw-2 stiffly; it hung exactly at the proper height from her slen\-der ankles; she wore a clean white collar; and her yellow \expndtw-1 hair was braided very tightly and smoothly, and tied with \expndtw4 a punctilious blue bow. In strange contrast with the \expndtw0 almost martial preciseness of her attire was the expres\-\expndtw4 sion of her little face, flushed, eager to enthusiasm, \expndtw-2 almost wild, with a light in her blue eyes which did not belong there, according to the traditions concerning little \expndtw6 New England maidens, with a feverish rose on her \expndtw-2 cheeks, which should have been cool and pale. However, \expndtw-1 that had all come since she had dangled the prism in the \expndtw2 rays of the setting sun.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "What did you think you saw when you shook that \expndtw-2 ear-drop off the lamp?" asked Libby; but she asked with\-\expndtw0 out much curiosity.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Red and green and yellow colors, of course," replied \expndtw1 Diantha, shortly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li29\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 When they reached Diantha's door, Libby bade her \expndtw0 good night, and sped across the road to her own house. \expndtw4 She stood a little in fear of Diantha's stepmother, if \expndtw1 Diantha did not. She knew just the sort of look which \expndtw2 would be directed toward the other little girl, and she \expndtw3 knew from experience that it might include her. From \expndtw-1 her Puritan ancestry she had a certain stubbornness when brought to bay, but no courage of aggression; so she ran.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Diantha marched in. She was utterly devoid of fear.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Her stepmother, Mrs. Zenas May, was washing the \expndtw-1 supper dishes at the kitchen sink. All through the house \expndtw-3 sounded a high sweet voice which was constantly off the \expndtw3 key, singing a lullaby to the two little girls, who had to\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2909\cf1\expndtw-5\fs23 THE PRISM\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 213\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 go to bed directly after they had finished their evening \expndtw-4 meal.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Mrs. Zenas May turned around and surveyed Diantha as she entered. There was nothing in the least unkind in \expndtw-1 her look; it was simply the gaze of one on a firm stand\-point of existence upon another swaying on a precarious \expndtw0 balance\emdash the sort of look a woman seated in a car gives \expndtw-1 to one standing. It was irresponsible, while cognizant of \expndtw3 the discomfort of the other person.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Where were you when the supper-bell rang?" asked \expndtw3 Mrs. Zenas May. She was rather a pretty woman, with \expndtw4 an exquisitely cut profile. Her voice was very even, \expndtw-1 almost as devoid of inflections as a deaf-and-dumb per\-son's. Her gingham gown was also rigorously starched. \expndtw-2 Her fair hair showed high lights of gloss from careful \expndtw2 brushing; it was strained back from her blue-veined \expndtw-3 temples.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Out in the field," replied Diantha.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Then you heard it?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Yes, ma'am."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "The supper-table is cleared away," said Mrs. May. That was all she said. She went on polishing the tum\-blers, which she was rinsing in ammonia water.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Diantha glanced through the open door and saw the \expndtw-2 dining-room table with its chenille after-supper cloth on. \expndtw-1 She made no reply, but went up-stairs to her own cham\-\expndtw4 ber. That was very comfortable\emdash the large south one \expndtw0 back of her step-parents'. Not a speck of dust was to be seen in it; the feather-bed was an even mound of snow. Diantha sat down by the window, and gazed out at the \expndtw1 deepening dusk. She felt at the prism around her neck, \expndtw2 but she did not draw it out, for it was of no use in that \expndtw-2 low light. She could not invoke the colors which it held. \expndtw1 Her chamber door was open. Presently she heard the \expndtw0 best-parlor door open, and heard quite distinctly her \expndtw1 stepmother's voice. She was speaking to her stepfather.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "There's a drop broken off the parlor lamp," said she.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 There was an unintelligible masculine grunt of \expndtw-2 response.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "I wish you'd look while I hold the lamp, and see if \expndtw1 you can find it on the floor anywhere," said her step\-\expndtw6 mother. Her voice was still even. The loss of a prism\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1896\cf1\expndtw-11\fs22 214\expndtw0\tab\expndtw3\i Mary E. Wilkins\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 from the best-parlor lamp was not enough to ruffle her \expndtw-1 outward composure.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Don't you see it?" she asked, after a little.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs23 Again came the unintelligible masculine grunt.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "It is very strange," said Mrs. May. "Don't look any\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 more."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 She never inquired of Diantha concerning the prism. In truth, she believed one of her grandchildren, whom \expndtw-1 she adored, to be responsible for the loss of the glittering \expndtw2 ornament, and was mindful of the fact that Diantha's \expndtw-2 mother had originally owned that lamp. So she said noth\-\expndtw3 ing, but as soon as might be purchased another, and Diantha kept her treasure quite unsuspected.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 She did not, however, tremble in the least while the \expndtw1 search was going on down-stairs. She had her defense quite ready. To her sense of justice it was unquestion\-able. She would simply say that the lamp had belonged to her own mother, consequently to her; that she had a \expndtw-1 right to do as she chose with it. She had not the slightest \expndtw0 fear of any reproaches which Mrs. May would bring to \expndtw-1 bear upon her. She knew she would not use bodily pun\-\expndtw1 ishment, as she never had; but she would have stood in \expndtw4 no fear of that.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Diantha did not go to bed for a long time. There was \expndtw-1 a full moon, and she sat by the window, leaning her two \expndtw0 elbows on the sill, making a cup of her hands, in which \expndtw4 she rested her peaked chin, and peered out.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 It was nearly nine o'clock when some one entered the \expndtw-2 room with heavy, soft movements, like a great tame dog. \expndtw4 It was her stepfather, and he had in his hand a large \expndtw0 wedge of apple-pie.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Diantha," he said, in a loud whisper, "you gone to \expndtw4 bed?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "No, sir," replied Diantha. She liked her stepfather. \expndtw-1 She was always aware of a clumsy, covert partizanship from him.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Well," said he, "here's a piece of pie. You hadn't \expndtw1 ought to go to bed without any supper. You'd ought to \expndtw3 come in when the bell rings another time, Diantha."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Thank you, father," said Diantha, reaching out her \expndtw4 hand for the pie.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs23 Zenas May, who was large and shaggily blond, with a\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2914\cf1\expndtw1\fs22 THE PRISM\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-14 215\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 face like a great blank of good nature, placed a heavy \expndtw4 hand on her little, tightly braided head, and patted it.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Better eat your pie and go to bed," he said. Then he \expndtw-1 shambled down-stairs very softly, lest his wife hear him.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Diantha ate her pie obediently, and went to bed, and with the first morning sunlight she removed her prism \expndtw0 from her neck, and flashed it across the room, and saw \expndtw3 what she saw, or what she thought she saw.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 Diantha kept the prism, and nobody except Libby \expndtw0 knew it, and she was quite safe with a secret. While she \expndtw1 did not in the least comprehend, she was stanch. Even \expndtw3 when she grew older and had a lover, she did not tell \expndtw0 him; she did not even tell him when she was married to \expndtw-1 him that Diantha Fielding always carried a drop off the \expndtw3 best-parlor lamp, which belonged to her own mother, \expndtw1 and when she flashed it in the sunlight she thought she \expndtw4 saw things. She kept it all to herself. Libby married \expndtw0 before Diantha, before Diantha had a lover even. Young \expndtw5 men, for some reason, were rather shy of Diantha, \expndtw-1 although she had a little property in her own right, inher\-\expndtw3 ited from her own father and mother, and was, more\-\expndtw1 over, extremely pretty. However, her prettiness was not \expndtw-1 of a type to attract the village men as quickly as Libby's more material charms. Diantha was very thin and small, \expndtw0 and her color was as clear as porcelain, and she gave a \expndtw-2 curious impression of mystery, although there was appar\-\expndtw1 ently nothing whatever mysterious about her.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 But her turn came. A graduate of a country college, a farmer's son, who had worked his own way through col\-\expndtw-1 lege, had now obtained the high school. He saw Diantha, \expndtw2 and fell in love with her, although he struggled against it. He said to himself that she was too delicate, that he \expndtw4 was a poor man, that he ought to have a more robust \expndtw3 wife, who would stand a better chance of discharging \expndtw0 her domestic and maternal duties without a breakdown. \expndtw1 Reason and judgment were strongly developed in him. \expndtw3 His passion for Diantha was entirely opposed to both, \expndtw4 but it got the better of him. One afternoon in August \expndtw2 when Diantha was almost twenty, he, passing by her \expndtw4 house, saw her sitting on her front doorstep, stopped, \expndtw2 and proposed a little stroll in the woods, and asked her to marry him.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1886\cf1\expndtw-12\fs22 216\expndtw0\tab\i Mary E. Wilkins\cf0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri38\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "I never thought much about getting married," said \expndtw-5 Diantha. Then she leaned toward him as if impelled by \expndtw-6 some newly developed instinct. She spoke so low that he \expndtw1 could not hear her, and he asked her over.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs24 "I never thought much about getting married," \expndtw-1 repeated Diantha, and she leaned nearer him.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 He laughed a great triumphant laugh, and caught her \expndtw-3 in his arms.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs24 "Then it is high time you did, you darling," he said.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 Diantha was very happy.        *\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li10\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 They lingered in the woods a long time, and when they \expndtw-2 went home, the young man, whose name was Robert Black, went in with her, and told her stepmother what \expndtw-3 had happened.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "I have asked your daughter to marry me, Mrs. May," \expndtw-2 he said, "and she has consented, and I hope you are \expndtw-7 willing."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Mrs. May replied that she had no objections, stiffly, \expndtw-2 without a smile. She never smiled. Instead of smiling, \expndtw-6 she always looked questioningly even at her beloved grandchildren. They had lived with her since their moth\-\expndtw-4 er's death, two pretty, boisterous girls, pupils of Robert \expndtw-5 Black, who had had their own inevitable little dreams \expndtw-7 regarding him, as they had had regarding every man who \expndtw-3 came in their way.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 When their grandmother told them that Diantha was \expndtw-6 to marry the hero who had dwelt in their own innocently \expndtw-5 bold air-castles of girlish dreams, they started at first as from a shock of falling imaginations; then they began to \expndtw-2 think of their attire as bridesmaids.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 Mrs. Zenas May was firmly resolved that Diantha \expndtw-3 should have as grand a wedding as if she had been her \expndtw-4 own daughter.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "Folks sha'n't say that she didn't have as good an outfit \expndtw-4 and wedding as if her own mother had been alive to see \expndtw1 to it," she said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 As for Diantha, she thought very little about her outfit \expndtw-4 or the wedding, but about Robert. All at once she was \expndtw-8 possessed by a strong angel of primal conditions of whose \expndtw-1 existence she had never dreamed. She poured out her \expndtw-6 very soul; she made revelations of the inmost innocences \expndtw0 of her nature to this ambitious, faithful, unimaginative\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2909\cf1\expndtw-2\fs21 THE PRISM\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-7 217\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri62\sb211\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 young man. She had been some two weeks betrothed, \expndtw-2 and they were walking together one afternoon, when she \expndtw0 showed him her prism.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 She no longer wore it about her neck as formerly. A \expndtw-2 dawning unbelief in it had seized her, and yet there were \expndtw4 tunes when to doubt seemed to doubt the evidence of \expndtw0 her own senses.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 That afternoon, as they were walking together in the \expndtw-1 lonely country road, she stopped him in a sunny interval \expndtw0 between the bordering woods, where the road stretched \expndtw-3 for some distance between fields foaming with wild carrot \expndtw-2 and mustard, and swarmed over with butterflies, and she took her prism out of her pocket and flashed it full before \expndtw1 her wondering lover's eyes.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li29\ri43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 He looked astonished, even annoyed; then he laughed \expndtw3 aloud with a sort of tender scorn.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "What a child you are, dear!" he said. "What are you \expndtw2 doing with that thing?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "What do you see, Robert?" the girl cried eagerly, \expndtw1 and there was in her eyes a light not of her day and \expndtw-1 generation, maybe inherited from some far-off Celtic \expndtw-3 ancestor\emdash a strain of imagination which had survived the \expndtw0 glaring light of latter days of commonness.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 He eyed her with amazement; then he looked at the \expndtw2 gorgeous blots and banners of color over the fields.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "See? Why, I see the prismatic colors, of course. What \expndtw3 else should I see?" he asked.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Nothing else?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "No. Why, what else should I see? I see the prismatic \expndtw2 colors from the refraction of the sunlight."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Diantha looked at the dancing tints, then at her lover, \expndtw-1 and spoke with a solemn candor, as if she were making confession of an alien faith. "Ever since I was a child, I \expndtw3 have seen, or thought so\emdash " she began.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "What, for heaven's sake?" he cried impatiently.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "You have read about\emdash fairies and\emdash such things?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Of course. What do you mean, Diantha?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li58\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "I have seen, or thought so, beautiful little people \expndtw4 moving and dancing in the broken lights across the \expndtw0 fields."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li278\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "For heaven's sake, put up that thing, and don't talk\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1886\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 218\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i Mary E. Wilkins\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri48\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 such nonsense, Diantha!" cried Robert, almost brutally. \expndtw4 He had paled a little.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "I have, Robert."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Don't talk such nonsense. I thought you were a sensi\-\expndtw3 ble girl," said the young man.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Diantha put the prism back in her pocket.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 All the rest of the way Robert was silent and gloomy. \expndtw0 His old doubts had revived. His judgment for the time \expndtw1 being got the upper hand of his passion. He began to \expndtw-3 wonder if he ought to marry a girl with such preposterous \expndtw3 fancies as those. He began to wonder if she were just \expndtw2 right in her mind.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 He parted from her coolly, and came the next evening, \expndtw1 but remained only a short time. Then he stayed away several days. He called on Sunday, then did not come \expndtw-1 again for four days. On Friday Diantha grew desperate. \expndtw-3 She went by herself out in the sunny field, walking ankle-\expndtw-1 deep in flowers and weeds, until she reached the margin \expndtw0 of a little pond on which the children skated in winter. \expndtw2 Then she took her prism from her pocket and flashed it \expndtw3 in the sunlight, and for the first time she failed to see \expndtw-2 what she had either seen, or imagined, for so many years.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 She saw only the beautiful prismatic colors flashing \expndtw1 across the field in bars and blots and streamers of rose \expndtw6 and violet, of orange and green. That was all. She \expndtw2 stooped, and dug in the oozy soil beside the pond with \expndtw-2 her bare white hands, and made, as it were, a little grave, \expndtw-1 and buried the prism out of sight. Then she washed her hands in the pond, and waved them about until they were \expndtw1 dry. Afterward she went swiftly across the field to the \expndtw-2 road which her lover must pass on his way from school, and, when she saw him coming, met him, blushing and \expndtw-3 trembling.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li24\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "I have put it away, Robert," she said. "I saw nothing; \expndtw1 it was only my imagination."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 It was a lonely road. He looked at her doubtfully, then \expndtw4 he laughed, and put an arm around her.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "It's all right, little girl," he replied; "but don't let \expndtw-3 such fancies dwell in your brain. This is a plain, common \expndtw5 world, and it won't do."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "I saw nothing; it must have been my imagination," she repeated. Then she leaned her head against her lov-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2909\cf1\expndtw1\fs22 THE PRISM\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-12 219\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri24\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs26 er's shoulder. Whether or not she had sold her birthright, \expndtw-1 she had got her full measure of the pottage of love which \expndtw3 filled to an ecstasy of satisfaction her woman's heart.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs26 She and Robert were married, and lived in a pretty \expndtw-2 new house, from the western windows of which she could \expndtw0 see the pond on whose borders she had buried the prism. She was very happy. For the time being, at least, all the \expndtw-1 mysticism in her race had given place to an utter revela\-tion of earthly bliss. People said how much Diantha had \expndtw3 improved since her marriage, what a fine housekeeper \expndtw-3 she was, how much common sense she had, how she was \expndtw3 such a fitting mate for her husband, whom she adored.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs26 Sometimes Diantha, looking from a western window, \expndtw1 used to see the pond across the field, reflecting the light \expndtw2 of the setting sun, and looking like an eye of revelation \expndtw0 of the earth; and she would remember that key of a lost \expndtw4 radiance and a lost belief of her own life, which was \expndtw0 buried beside it. Then she would go happily and prepare \expndtw3 her husband's supper.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li19\ri1651\sl-398\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs45 THE KITH OF THE \expndtw-2 ELF-FOLK\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb250\cf1\expndtw1\i\fs34 Lord Dunsany\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li29\ri38\sb1094\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 The north wind was blowing, and red and golden the last \expndtw-2 days of Autumn were streaming hence. Solemn and cold \expndtw2 over the marshes arose the evening.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs23 It became very still.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li34\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 Then the last pigeon went home to the trees on the \expndtw-2 dry land in the distance, whose shapes already had taken \expndtw2 upon themselves a mystery in the haze.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs23 Then all was still again.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 As the light faded and the haze deepened, mystery \expndtw2 crept nearer from every side.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Then the green plover came in crying, and all alighted.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 And again it became still, save when one of the plover \expndtw-1 arose and flew a little way uttering the cry of the waste. \expndtw1 And hushed and silent became the earth, expecting the \expndtw-2 first star. Then the duck came in, and the widgeon, com\-\expndtw2 pany by company: and all the light of day faded out of \expndtw-2 the sky saving one red band of light. Across the light \expndtw-1 appeared, black and huge, the wings of a flock of geese beating up wind to the marshes. These too went down \expndtw1 among the rushes.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li53\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Then the stars appeared and shone in the stillness, and \expndtw2 there was silence in the great spaces of the night.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Suddenly the bells of the cathedral in the marshes \expndtw1 broke out, calling to evensong.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Eight centuries ago on the edge of the marsh men had built the huge cathedral, or it may have been seven cen\-\expndtw1 turies ago, or perhaps nine; it was all one to the Wild \expndtw-5 Things.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 So evensong was held, and candles lighted, and the \expndtw3 lights through the windows shone red and green in the\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li62\sb91\qc\cf1\expndtw-7\fs21 220\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1114\tx4944\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE KITH OF THE ELF-FOLK\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-21 221\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri38\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 water, and the sound of the organ went roaring over the marshes. But from the deep and perilous places, edged \expndtw-6 with bright mosses, the Wild Things came leaping up to \expndtw-4 dance on the reflection of the stars, and over their heads \expndtw-2 as they danced the marsh-lights rose and fell.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 The Wild Things are somewhat human in appearance, \expndtw-2 only all brown of skin and barely two feet high. Their ears are pointed like the squirrel's, only far larger, and \expndtw-5 they leap to prodigious heights. They live all day under \expndtw-1 deep pools in the loneliest marshes, but at night they \expndtw-2 come up and dance. Each Wild Thing has over its head \expndtw-3 a marsh-light, which moves as the Wild Thing moves; \expndtw0 they have no souls, and cannot die, and are of the kith \expndtw-3 of the Elf-folk.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 All night they dance over the marshes, treading upon \expndtw0 the reflection of the stars (for the bare surface of the \expndtw-3 water will not hold them by itself); but when the stars begin to pale, they sink down one by one into the pools \expndtw-4 of their home. Or if they tarry longer, sitting upon the \expndtw-2 rushes, their bodies fade from view as the marsh-fires \expndtw-6 pale in the light, and by daylight none may see the Wild \expndtw-4 Things of the kith of the Elf-folk. Neither may any see \expndtw-1 them even at night unless they were born, as I was, in \expndtw-5 the hour of dusk, just at the moment when the first star \expndtw-6 appears.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 Now, on the night that I tell of, a little Wild Thing \expndtw-4 had gone drifting over the waste, till it came right up to \expndtw-1 the walls of the cathedral and danced upon the images \expndtw-5 of the coloured saints as they lay in the water among the \expndtw-3 reflection of the stars. And as it leaped in its fantastic \expndtw-4 dance, it saw through the painted windows to where the \expndtw-2 people prayed, and heard the organ roaring over the \expndtw4 marshes. The sound of the organ roared over the \expndtw-6 marshes, but the song and prayers of the people streamed \expndtw1 up from the cathedral's highest tower like thin gold \expndtw-4 chains, and reached to Paradise, and up and down them \expndtw-2 went the angels from Paradise to the people, and from \expndtw-1 the people to Paradise again.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Then something akin to discontent troubled the Wild Thing for the first time since the making of the marshes; \expndtw-3 and the soft grey ooze and the chill of the deep water \expndtw-5 seemed to be not enough, nor the first arrival from north-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1982\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 222\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i Lord Dunsany\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\ri48\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 wards of the tumultuous geese, nor the wild rejoicing of the wings of the wildfowl when every feather sings, nor \expndtw0 the wonder of the calm ice that comes when the snipe depart and beards the rushes with frost and clothes the \expndtw-2 hushed waste with a mysterious haze where the sun goes \expndtw2 red and low, nor even the dance of the Wild Things in \expndtw-2 the marvellous night; and the little Wild Thing longed to \expndtw4 have a soul, and to go and worship God.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 And when evensong was over and the lights were out, \expndtw2 it went back crying to its kith.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 But on the next night, as soon as the images of the \expndtw2 stars appeared in the water, it went leaping away from \expndtw1 star to star to the farthest edge of the marshlands, where \expndtw5 a great wood grew where dwelt the Oldest of Wild \expndtw-5 Things.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li34\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 And it found the Oldest of Wild Things sitting under \expndtw2 a tree, sheltering itself from the moon.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 And the little Wild Thing said: "I want to have a soul \expndtw-1 to worship God, and to know the meaning of music, and to see the inner beauty of the marshlands and to imagine \expndtw1 Paradise."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 And the Oldest of the Wild Things said to it: "What \expndtw0 have we to do with God? We are only Wild Things, and \expndtw3 of the Kith of the Elf-folk."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 But it only answered, "I want to have a soul."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Then the Oldest of the Wild Things said: "I have no \expndtw-2 soul to give you; but if you got a soul, one day you would have to die, and if you knew the meaning of music you \expndtw5 would learn the meaning of sorrow, and it is better to be a Wild Thing and not to die."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs23 So it went weeping away.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li53\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 But they that were kin to the Elf-folk were sorry for \expndtw-2 the little Wild Thing; and though the Wild Things cannot \expndtw-3 sorrow long, having no souls to sorrow with, yet they felt \expndtw-1 for awhile a soreness where their souls should be, when \expndtw2 they saw the grief of their comrade.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 So the kith of the Elf-folk went abroad by night to \expndtw4 make a soul for the little Wild Thing. And they went \expndtw-1 over the marshes till they came to the high fields among the flowers and grasses. And there they gathered a large \expndtw2 piece of gossamer that the spider had laid by twilight; \expndtw3 and the dew was on it.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1109\tx4944\cf1\expndtw2\fs22 THE KITH OF THE ELF-FOLK\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-14 223\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri29\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Into this dew had shone all the lights of the long banks \expndtw-2 of the ribbed sky, as all the colours changed in the restful spaces of evening. And over it the marvellous night had \expndtw1 gleamed with all its stars.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Then the Wild Things went with their dew-bespangled \expndtw4 gossamer down to the edge of their home. And there \expndtw0 they gathered a piece of the grey mist that lies by night over the marshlands. And into it they put the melody of the waste that is borne up and down the marshes in the \expndtw-1 evening on the wings of the golden plover. And they put \expndtw3 into it too the mournful song that the reeds are com\-\expndtw0 pelled to sing before the presence of the arrogant North \expndtw-2 Wind. Then each of the Wild Things gave some treasured \expndtw-1 memory of the old marshes, "For we can spare it," they said. And to all this they added a few images of the stars \expndtw5 that they gathered out of the water. Still the soul that \expndtw3 the kith of the Elf-folk were making had no life.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li19\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Then they put into it the low voices of two lovers that \expndtw3 went walking in the night, wandering late alone. And \expndtw4 after that they waited for the dawn. And the queenly \expndtw-1 dawn appeared, and the marsh-lights of the Wild Things \expndtw-2 paled in the glare, and their bodies faded from view; and \expndtw-1 still they waited by the marsh's edge. And to them wait\-\expndtw0 ing came over field and marsh, from the ground and out \expndtw3 of the sky, the myriad song of the birds.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 This too the Wild Things put into the piece of haze that they had gathered in the marshlands, and wrapped \expndtw-2 it all up in their dew-bespangled gossamer. Then the soul \expndtw-5 lived.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 And there it lay in the hands of the Wild Things no \expndtw-1 larger than a hedgehog; and wonderful lights were in it, \expndtw3 green and blue; and they changed ceaselessly, going \expndtw-2 round and round, and in the grey midst of it was a purple \expndtw-3 flare.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 And the next night they came to the little Wild Thing and showed her the gleaming soul. And they said to her: "If you must have a soul and go and worship God, and become a mortal and die, place this to your left breast a \expndtw4 little above the heart, and it will enter and you will \expndtw5 become a human. But if you take it you can never be \expndtw3 rid of it to become immortal again unless you pluck it \expndtw5 out and give it to another; and \i we \i0 will not take it, and\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1982\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 224\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i Lord Dunsany\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri62\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 most of the humans have a soul already. And if you \expndtw-2 cannot find a human without a soul you will one day die, and your soul cannot go to Paradise, because it was only \expndtw3 made in the marshes."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Far away the little Wild Thing saw the cathedral win\-\expndtw-1 dows alight for evensong, and the song of the people \expndtw-2 mounting up to Paradise, and all the angels going up and \expndtw4 down. So it bid farewell with tears and thanks to the \expndtw2 Wild Things of the kith of Elf-folk, and went leaping \expndtw-1 away towards the green dry land, holding the soul in its \expndtw-3 hands.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 And the Wild Things were sorry that it had gone, but \expndtw3 could not be sorry long, because they had no souls.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 At the marsh's edge the little Wild Thing gazed for \expndtw-1 some moments over the water to where the marsh-fires \expndtw1 were leaping up and down, and then pressed the soul \expndtw3 against its left breast a little above the heart.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 Instantly it became a young and beautiful woman, who was cold and frightened. She clad herself somehow with \expndtw-2 bundles of reeds, and went towards the lights of a house \expndtw0 that stood close by. And she pushed open the door and \expndtw1 entered, and found a farmer and a farmer's wife sitting over their supper.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 And the farmer's wife took the little Wild Thing with the soul of the marshes up to her room, and clothed her \expndtw1 and braided her hair, and brought her down again, and \expndtw0 gave her the first food that she had ever eaten. Then the \expndtw1 farmer's wife asked many questions.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Where have you come from?" she said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Over the marshes."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "From what direction?" said the farmer's wife.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "South," said the little Wild Thing with the new soul.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li62\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw8\fs23 "But none can come over the marshes from the \expndtw3 south," said the farmer's wife.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li278\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "No, they can't do that," said the farmer.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "I lived in the marshes."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li283\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Who are you?" asked the farmer's wife.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li72\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "I am a Wild Thing, and have found a soul in the \expndtw4 marshes, and we are kin to the Elf-folk."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li77\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Talking it over afterwards, the farmer and his wife \expndtw0 agreed that she must be a gipsy who had been lost, and \expndtw2 that she was queer with hunger and exposure.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1109\tx4939\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE KITH OF THE ELF-FOLK\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 225\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri53\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 So that night the little Wild Thing slept in the fanner's \expndtw2 house, but her new soul stayed awake the whole night long dreaming of the beauty of the marshes.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li10\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 As soon as dawn came over the waste and shone on \expndtw-2 the farmer's house, she looked from the window towards \expndtw2 the glittering waters, and saw the inner beauty of the \expndtw3 marsh. For the Wild Things only love the marsh and know its haunts, but now she perceived the mystery of \expndtw-1 its distances and the glamour of its perilous pools, with their fair and deadly mosses, and felt the marvel of the \expndtw0 North Wind who comes dominant out of unknown icy lands, and the wonder of that ebb and flow of life when \expndtw2 the wildfowl whirl in at evening to the marshlands and \expndtw5 at dawn pass out to sea. And she knew that over her \expndtw0 head above the farmer's house stretched wide Paradise, \expndtw-3 where perhaps God was now imagining a sunrise while \expndtw2 angels played low on lutes, and the sun came rising up on the world below to gladden fields and marsh.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 And all that heaven thought, the marsh thought too; \expndtw-1 for the blue of the marsh was as the blue of heaven, and \expndtw2 the great cloud shapes in heaven became the shapes in \expndtw1 the marsh, and through each ran momentary rivers of \expndtw0 purple, errant between banks of gold. And the stalwart \expndtw-2 army of reeds appeared out of the gloom with all their \expndtw-1 pennons waving as far as the eye could see. And from another window she saw the vast cathedral gathering its \expndtw1 ponderous strength together, and lifting it up in towers \expndtw2 out of the marshlands.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 She said, "I will never, never leave the marsh."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 An hour later she dressed with great difficulty and \expndtw-2 went down to eat the second meal of her life. The farmer \expndtw-1 and his wife were kindly folk, and taught her how to eat.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "I suppose the gipsies don't have knives and forks," \expndtw3 one said to the other afterwards.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 After breakfast the farmer went and saw the Dean, \expndtw-1 who lived near his cathedral, and presently returned and \expndtw1 brought back to the Dean's house the little Wild Thing with the new soul.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li53\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "This is the lady," said the farmer. "This is Dean Mur-\expndtw3 nith." Then he went away.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Ah," said the Dean, "I understand you were lost the\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1982\cf1\expndtw-7\fs24 226\expndtw0\tab\expndtw8\i Lord Dunsany\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\ri48\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 other night in the marshes. It was a terrible night to be \expndtw3 lost in the marshes."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li5\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "I love the marshes," said the little Wild Thing with \expndtw1 the new soul.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Indeed! How old are you?" said the Dean.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "I don't know," she answered.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "You must know about how old you are," he said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "Oh, about ninety," she said, "or more."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Ninety years!" exclaimed the Dean.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "No, ninety centuries," she said; "I am as old as the \expndtw1 marshes."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Then she told her story\emdash how she had longed to be a \expndtw5 human and go and worship God, and have a soul and \expndtw-2 see the beauty of the world, and how all the Wild Things \expndtw-3 had made her a soul of gossamer and mist and music and \expndtw-1 strange memories.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li19\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "But if this is true," said Dean Murnith, "this is very \expndtw3 wrong. God cannot have intended you to have a soul.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "What is your name?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "I have no name," she answered.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "We must find a Christian name and a surname for you. What would you like to be called?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Song of the Rushes," she said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "That won't do at all," said the Dean.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Then I would like to be called Terrible North Wind, \expndtw4 or Star in the Waters," she said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "No, no, no," said Dean Murnith; "that is quite \expndtw2 impossible. We could call you Miss Rush if you like. \expndtw-3 How would Mary Rush do? Perhaps you had better have \expndtw2 another name\emdash say Mary Jane Rush."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 So the little Wild Thing with the soul of the marshes took the names that were offered her, and became Mary \expndtw2 Jane Rush.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "And we must find something for you to do," said \expndtw3 Dean Murnith. "Meanwhile we can give you a room \expndtw6 here."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "I don't want to do anything," replied Mary Jane; "I \expndtw-1 want to worship God in the cathedral and live beside the \expndtw1 marshes."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li53\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Then Mrs. Murnith came in, and for the rest of that \expndtw4 day Mary Jane stayed at the house of the Dean.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 And there with her new soul she perceived the beauty\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1104\tx4939\cf1\expndtw2\fs22 THE KITH OF THE ELF-FOLK\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-12 227\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri43\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 of the world; for it came grey and level out of misty \expndtw-3 distances, and widened into grassy fields and ploughlands \expndtw2 right up to the edge of an old gabled town; and solitary \expndtw0 in the fields far off an ancient windmill stood, and his \expndtw-1 honest handmade sails went round and round in the free East Anglian winds. Close by, the gabled houses leaned out over the streets, planted fair upon sturdy timbers that \expndtw0 grew in the olden time, all glorying among themselves \expndtw-1 upon their beauty. And out of them, buttress by buttress, \expndtw2 growing and going upwards, aspiring tower by tower, rose the cathedral.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi91\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 And she saw the people moving in the streets all lei\-\expndtw-2 surely and slow, and unseen among them, whispering to \expndtw1 each other, unheard by living men and concerned only \expndtw-2 with bygone things, drifted the ghosts of very long ago. \expndtw-1 And wherever the streets ran eastwards, wherever were \expndtw-3 gaps in the houses, always there broke into view the sight \expndtw3 of the great marshes, like to some bar of music weird \expndtw5 and strange that haunts a melody, arising again and \expndtw0 again, played on the violin by one musician only, who \expndtw3 plays no other bar, and he is swart and lank about the \expndtw6 hair and bearded about the lips, and his moustache \expndtw0 droops long and low, and no one knows the land from \expndtw-2 which he comes. \expndtw2 . All these were good things for a new soul to see.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Then the sun set over green fields and ploughland, and the night came up. One by one the merry lights of cheery \expndtw-1 lamp-lit windows took their stations in the solemn night.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Then the bells rang, far up in a cathedral tower, and \expndtw4 their melody fell on the roofs of the old houses and \expndtw2 poured over their eaves until the streets were full, and \expndtw1 then flooded away over green fields and plough, till it \expndtw2 came to the sturdy mill and brought the miller trudging \expndtw-1 to evensong, and far away eastwards and seawards the \expndtw0 sound rang out over the remoter marshes. And it was all \expndtw3 as yesterday to the old ghosts in the streets.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Then the Dean's wife took Mary Jane to evening ser\-\expndtw2 vice, and she saw three hundred candles filling all the \expndtw-2 aisle with light. But sturdy pillars stood there in unlit vastnesses; great colonnades going away into the gloom, \expndtw1 where evening and morning, year in year out, they did \expndtw2 their work in the dark, holding the cathedral roof aloft.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1987\cf1\expndtw-7\fs21 228\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i Lord Dunsany\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\ri67\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 And it was stiller than the marshes are still when the ice \expndtw3 has come and the wind that brought it has fallen.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Suddenly into this stillness rushed the sound of the \expndtw5 organ, roaring, and presently the people prayed and \expndtw-5 sang.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li19\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 No longer could Mary Jane see their prayers ascending \expndtw-1 like thin gold chains, for that was but an elfin fancy, but \expndtw2 she imagined clear in her new soul the seraphs passing in the ways of Paradise, and the angels changing guard to watch the World by night.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li29\ri62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 When the Dean had finished service, a young curate, \expndtw2 Mr. Millings, went up into the pulpit.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li34\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 He spoke of Abana and Pharpar, rivers of Damascus: \expndtw2 and Mary Jane was glad that there were rivers having \expndtw3 such names, and heard with wonder of Nineveh, that \expndtw2 great city, and many things strange and new.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 And the light of the candles shone on the curate's fair \expndtw-3 hair, and his voice went ringing down the aisle, and Mary \expndtw3 Jane rejoiced that he was there.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 But when his voice stopped she felt a sudden loneli\-ness, such as she had not felt since the making of the \expndtw-2 marshes; for the Wild Things never are lonely and never \expndtw4 unhappy, but dance all night on the reflection of the \expndtw2 stars, and, having no souls, desire nothing more.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 After the collection was made, before any one moved \expndtw3 to go, Mary Jane walked up the aisle to Mr. Millings.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "I love you," she said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs23 Nobody sympathised with Mary Jane.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li62\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "So unfortunate for Mr. Millings," everyone said; \expndtw2 "such a promising young man."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li62\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 Mary Jane was sent away to a great manufacturing city \expndtw2 of the Midlands, where work had been found for her in \expndtw0 a cloth factory. And there was nothing in that town that \expndtw5 was good for a soul to see. For it did not know that \expndtw-1 beauty was to be desired; so it made many things by \expndtw4 machinery, and became hurried in all its ways, and \expndtw5 boasted its superiority over other cities and became \expndtw4 richer and richer, and there was none to pity it.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li77\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 In this city Mary Jane had had lodgings found for her \expndtw2 near the factory.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li283\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 At six o'clock on those November mornings, about the\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1109\tx4944\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE KITH OF THE ELF-FOLK\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 229\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri48\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 time that, far away from the city, the wildfowl rose up \expndtw6 out of the calm marshes and passed to the troubled \expndtw0 spaces of the sea, at six o'clock the factory uttered a \expndtw-1 prolonged howl and gathered the workers together, and \expndtw0 there they worked, saving two hours for food, the whole \expndtw2 of the daylit hours and into the dark till the bells tolled \expndtw-3 six again.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 There Mary Jane worked with other girls in a long \expndtw-2 dreary room, where giants sat pounding wool into a long \expndtw2 thread-like strip with iron, rasping hands. And all day long they roared as they sat at their soulless work. But \expndtw4 the work of Mary Jane was not with these, only their \expndtw2 roar was ever in her ears as their clattering iron limbs \expndtw3 went to and fro.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Her work was to tend a creature smaller, but infinitely more cunning.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 It took the strip of wool that the giants had threshed, \expndtw4 and whirled it round and round until it had twisted it \expndtw-1 into hard thin thread. Then it would make a clutch with \expndtw1 fingers of steel at the thread that it had gathered, and \expndtw-1 waddle away about five yards and come back with more.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 It had mastered all the subtlety of skilled workers, and had gradually displaced them; one thing only it could not \expndtw2 do, it was unable to pick up the ends if a piece of the \expndtw4 thread broke, in order to tie them together again. For \expndtw0 this a human soul was required, and it was Mary Jane's \expndtw1 business to pick up broken ends; and the moment she \expndtw-2 placed them together the busy soulless creature tied them \expndtw0 for itself.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 All here was ugly; even the green wool as it whirled \expndtw2 round and round was neither the green of the grass nor \expndtw-1 yet the green of the rushes, but a sorry muddy green that \expndtw2 befitted a sullen city under a murky sky.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 When she looked out over the roofs of the town, there \expndtw-2 too was ugliness; and well the houses knew it, for with \expndtw-3 hideous stucco they aped in grotesque mimicry the pillars \expndtw0 and temples of old Greece, pretending to one another to \expndtw-1 be that which they were not. And emerging from these \expndtw4 houses and going in, and seeing the pretence of paint \expndtw2 and stucco year after year until it all peeled away, the souls of the poor owners of those houses sought to be other souls until they grew weary of it.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1987\cf1\expndtw-12\fs22 230\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Lord Dunsany\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri38\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 At evening Mary Jane went back to her lodgings. Only \expndtw2 then, after the dark had fallen, could the soul of Mary Jane perceive any beauty in that city, when the lamps \expndtw4 were lit and here and there a star shone through the smoke. Then she would have gone abroad and beheld \expndtw-1 the night, but this the old woman to whom she was con\-\expndtw1 fided would not let her do. And the days multiplied \expndtw-2 themselves by seven and became weeks, and the weeks \expndtw-1 passed by, and all days were the same. And all the while \expndtw3 the soul of Mary Jane was crying for beautiful things, and found not one, saving on Sundays, when she went \expndtw2 to church, and left it to find the city greyer than before.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 One day she decided that it was better to be a wild \expndtw-1 thing in the lovely marshes, than to have a soul that cried \expndtw4 for beautiful things and found not one. From that day \expndtw6 she determined to be rid of her soul, so she told her \expndtw4 story to one of the factory girls, and said to her:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "The other girls are poorly clad and they do soulless \expndtw-2 work; surely some of them have no souls and would take \expndtw3 mine."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 But the factory girl said to her: "All the poor have \expndtw3 souls. It is all they have."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li34\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Then Mary Jane watched the rich whenever she saw \expndtw2 them, and vainly sought for some one without a soul.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 One day at the hour when the machines rested and the \expndtw5 human beings that tended them rested too, the wind \expndtw0 being at that time from the direction of the marshlands, \expndtw2 the soul of Mary Jane lamented bitterly. Then, as she \expndtw-1 stood outside the factory gates, the soul irresistibly com\-pelled her to sing, and a wild song came from her lips, \expndtw-2 hymning the marshlands. And into her song came crying \expndtw0 her yearning for home and for the sound of the shout of \expndtw3 the North Wind, masterful and proud, with his lovely \expndtw-1 lady the Snow; and she sang of tales that the rushes mur\-\expndtw1 mured to one another, tales that the teal knew and the \expndtw-1 Watchful heron. And over the crowded streets her song went crying away, the song of waste places and of wild free lands, full of wonder and magic, for she had in her \expndtw1 elf-made soul the song of the birds and the roar of the \expndtw2 organ in the marshes.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 At this moment Signor Thompsoni, the well-known\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1109\tx4939\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE KITH OF THE ELF-FOLK\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 231\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri43\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 English tenor, happened to go by with a friend. They \expndtw2 stopped and listened; every one stopped and listened.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "There has been nothing like this in Europe in my \expndtw1 time," said Signor Thompsoni.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 So a change came into the life of Mary Jane.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 People were written to, and finally it was arranged that \expndtw4 she should take a leading part in the Covent Garden \expndtw2 Opera in a few weeks.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 So she went to London to learn.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 London and singing lessons were better than the City \expndtw2 of the Midlands and those terrible machines. Yet still \expndtw4 Mary Jane was not free to go and live as she liked by \expndtw-1 the edge of the marshlands, and she was still determined \expndtw3 to be rid of her soul, but could find no one that had not \expndtw2 a soul of their own.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 One day she was told that the English people would \expndtw-2 not listen to her as Miss Rush, and was asked what more \expndtw2 suitable name she would like to be called by.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "I would like to be called Terrible North Wind," said \expndtw4 Mary Jane, "or Song of the Rushes."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 When she was told that this was impossible and Signo-\expndtw1 rina Maria Russiano was suggested, she acquiesced at \expndtw2 once, as she had acquiesced when they took her away \expndtw7 from her curate; she knew nothing of the ways of \expndtw-3 humans.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 At last the day of the Opera came round, and it was \expndtw3 a cold day of the winter.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 And Signorina Russiano appeared on the stage before a crowded house.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs23 And Signorina Russiano sang.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 And into the song went all the longing of her soul, the \expndtw-2 soul that could not go to Paradise, but could only worship God and know the meaning of music, and the longing \expndtw-1 pervaded that Italian song as the infinite mystery of the \expndtw-2 hills is borne along the sound of distant sheep-bells. Then \expndtw0 in the souls that were in that crowded house arose little \expndtw2 memories of a great while since that were quite quite \expndtw-3 dead, and lived awhile again during that marvellous song.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 And a strange chill went into the blood of all that \expndtw1 listened, as though they stood on the border of bleak \expndtw2 marshes and the North Wind blew.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs23 And some it moved to sorrow and some to regret, and\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1992\cf1\expndtw-12\fs22 232\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Lord Dunsany\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri43\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 some to an unearthly joy. Then suddenly the song went wailing away, like the winds of the winter from the \expndtw1 marshlands when Spring appears from the South.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 So it ended. And a great silence fell foglike over all \expndtw0 that house, breaking in upon the end of a chatty conver\-\expndtw2 sation that a lady was enjoying with a friend.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 In the dead hush Signorina Russiano rushed from the \expndtw0 stage; she appeared again running among the audience, \expndtw4 and dashed up to the lady.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Take my soul," she said; "it is a beautiful soul. It can \expndtw-2 worship God, and knows the meaning of music and can \expndtw1 imagine Paradise. And if you go to the marshlands with \expndtw-2 it you will see beautiful things; there is an old town there \expndtw2 built of lovely timbers, with ghosts in its streets."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 The lady stared. Every one was standing up. "See," \expndtw2 said Signorina Russiano, "it is a beautiful soul."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 And she clutched at her left breast a little above the \expndtw2 heart, and there was the soul shining in her hand, with \expndtw-1 the green and blue lights going round and round and the \expndtw2 purple flare in the midst.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Take it," she said, "and you will love all that is beau\-\expndtw2 tiful, and know the four winds, each one by his name, \expndtw3 and the songs of the birds at dawn. I do not want it, \expndtw1 because I am not free. Put it to your left breast a little \expndtw4 above the heart."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Still everybody was standing up, and the lady felt \expndtw-2 uncomfortable.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Please offer it to some one else," she said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "But they all have souls already," said Signorina \expndtw-3 Russiano.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 And everybody went on standing up. And the lady took the soul in her hand.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Perhaps it is lucky," she said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 She felt that she wanted to pray.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 She half-closed her eyes, and said, "Unberufen." Then \expndtw0 she put the soul to her left breast a little above the heart, \expndtw-1 and hoped that the people would sit down and the singer \expndtw-2 go away.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Instantly a heap of clothes collapsed before her. For a moment, in the shadow among the seats, those who were \expndtw4 born in the dusk hour might have seen a little brown thing leaping free from the clothes; then it sprang into\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1109\tx4939\cf1\expndtw2\fs22 THE KITH OF THE ELF-FOLK\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-12 233\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri53\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 the bright light of the hall, and became invisible to any \expndtw-4 human eye.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 It dashed about for a little, then found the door, and \expndtw-2 presently was in the lamplit streets.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li10\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 To those that were born in the dusk hour it might \expndtw-4 have been seen leaping rapidly wherever the streets ran \expndtw-1 northwards and eastwards, disappearing from human \expndtw-5 sight as it passed under the lamps, and appearing again \expndtw-2 beyond them with a marsh-light over its head.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Once a dog perceived it and gave chase, and was left far behind.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li19\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 The cats of London, who are all born in the dusk hour, \expndtw-3 howled fearfully as it went by.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 Presently it came to the meaner streets, where the \expndtw-4 houses are smaller. Then it went due northeastwards, \expndtw-1 leaping from roof to roof. And so in a few minutes it \expndtw1 came to more open spaces, and then to the desolate \expndtw-1 lands, where market gardens grow, which are neither \expndtw-4 town nor country. Till at last the good black trees came \expndtw-3 into view, with their demoniac shapes in the night, and \expndtw-2 the grass was cold and wet, and the night-mist floated over it. And a great white owl came by, going up and \expndtw-4 down in the dark. And at all these things the little Wild \expndtw-6 Thing rejoiced elvishly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 And it left London far behind it, reddening the sky, \expndtw-2 and could distinguish no longer its unlovely roar, but \expndtw-1 heard again the noises of the night.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-7\fs24 And now it would come through a hamlet glowing and \expndtw-5 comfortable in the night; and now to the dark, wet, open \expndtw-6 fields again; and many an owl it overtook as they drifted \expndtw-3 through the night, a people friendly to the Elf-folk. Sometimes it crossed wide rivers, leaping from star to \expndtw-4 star; and, choosing its way as it went, to avoid the hard \expndtw-5 rough roads, came before midnight to the East Anglian \expndtw-8 lands.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\sb5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 And it heard there the shout of the North Wind, who \expndtw-5 was dominant and angry, as he drove southwards his adventurous geese; while the rushes bent before him \expndtw-4 chaunting plaintively and low, like enslaved rowers of \expndtw0 some fabulous trireme, bending and swinging under blows of the lash, and singing all the while a doleful \expndtw-11 song.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1982\cf1\expndtw-7\fs24 234\expndtw0\tab\expndtw8\i Lord Dunsany\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri10\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 And it felt the good dank air that clothes by night the broad East Anglian lands, and came again to some old \expndtw4 perilous pool where the soft green mosses grew, and \expndtw3 there plunged downward and downward into the near \expndtw-2 dark water, till it felt the homely ooze once more coming \expndtw2 up between its toes. Thence, out of the lovely chill that \expndtw-1 is in the heart of the ooze, it arose renewed and rejoicing \expndtw4 to dance upon the image of the stars.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 I chanced to stand that night by the marsh's edge, for\-\expndtw-1 getting in my mind the affairs of men; and I saw the \expndtw-2 marsh-fires come leaping up from all the perilous places. \expndtw-1 And they came up by flocks the whole night long to the number of a great multitude, and danced away together \expndtw2 over the marshes.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 And I believe that there was a great rejoicing all that \expndtw2 night among the kith of the Elf-folk.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\cf1\fs45 THE SECRET PLACE\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb192\cf1\expndtw1\i\fs37 Richard McKenna\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li29\ri43\sb1488\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 This morning my son asked me what I did in the war. \expndtw3 He's fifteen and I don't know why he never asked me \expndtw8 before. I don't know why I never anticipated the \expndtw-1 question.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 He was just leaving for camp, and I was able to put \expndtw-2 him off by saying I did government work. He'll be two \expndtw0 weeks at camp. As long as the counselors keep pressure \expndtw1 on him, he'll do well enough at group activities. The \expndtw0 moment they relax it, he'll be off studying an ant colony \expndtw4 or reading one of his books. He's on astronomy now. The moment he comes home, he'll ask me again just what I did in the war, and I'll have to tell him.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li48\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 But I don't understand just what I did in the war. \expndtw-1 Sometimes I think my group fought a death fight with a \expndtw1 local myth and only Colonel Lewis realized it. I don't \expndtw-2 know who won. All I know is that war demands of some \expndtw0 men risks more obscure and ignoble than death in battle. \expndtw3 I know it did of me.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 It began in 1931, when a local boy was found dead in \expndtw0 the desert near Barker, Oregon. He had with him a sack \expndtw5 of gold ore and one thumb-sized crystal of uranium \expndtw3 oxide. The crystal ended as a curiosity in a Salt Lake \expndtw0 City assay office until, in 1942, it became of strangely \expndtw-1 great importance. Army agents traced its probable origin \expndtw3 to a hundred-square-mile area near Barker. Dr. Lewis was called to duty as a reserve colonel and ordered to \expndtw-1 find the vein. But the whole area was overlain by thou\-\expndtw-2 sands of feet of Miocene lava flows and of course it was \expndtw2 geological insanity to look there for a pegmatite vein. \expndtw5 The area had no drainage pattern and had never been\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li62\sb67\qc\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 235\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li62\tx1891\cf1\expndtw-11\fs22 236\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Richard McKenna\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li67\ri48\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 glaciated. Dr. Lewis protested that the crystal could have \expndtw-2 gotten there only by prior human agency.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li62\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 It did him no good. He was told his was not to reason \expndtw-2 why. People very high up would not be placated until \expndtw-3 much money and scientific effort had been spent in a \expndtw-5 search. The army sent him young geology graduates, \expndtw-3 including me, and demanded progress reports. For the \expndtw-4 sake of morale, in a land of frustrated desperation, Dr. \expndtw-3 Lewis decided to make the project a model textbook \expndtw-2 exercise in mapping the number and thickness of the \expndtw-4 basalt beds over the search area all the way down to the prevolcanic Miocene surface. That would at least be a \expndtw-5 useful addition to Columbia Plateau lithology. It would \expndtw-4 also be proof positive that no uranium ore existed there, \expndtw-2 so it was not really cheating.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li82\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 That Oregon countryside was a dreary place. The \expndtw-4 search area was flat, featureless country with black lava \expndtw-8 outcropping everywhere through scanty gray soil in which \expndtw-5 sagebrush grew hardly knee high. It was hot and dry in \expndtw-3 summer and dismal with thin snow in whiter. Winds \expndtw-5 howled across it at all seasons. Barker was about a hun\-\expndtw1 dred wooden houses on dusty streets, and some hay \expndtw-5 farms along a canal. All the young people were away at \expndtw2 war or war jobs, and the old people seemed to resent \expndtw-5 us. There were twenty of us, apart from the contract drill \expndtw-6 crews who lived in their own trailer camps, and we were \expndtw-4 gown against town, in a way. We slept and ate at Col-\expndtw-3 thorpe House, a block down the street from our head\-quarters. We had our own "gown" table there, and we \expndtw-2 might as well have been men from Mars.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi307\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 I enjoyed it, just the same. Dr. Lewis treated us like students, with lectures and quizzes and assigned reading. \expndtw-2 . He was a fine teacher and a brilliant scientist, and we \expndtw-1 loved him. He gave us all a turn at each phase of the \expndtw-5 work. I started on surface mapping and then worked with \expndtw-4 the drill crews, who were taking cores through the basalt \expndtw-2 and into the granite thousands of feet beneath. Then I \expndtw-5 worked on taking gravimetric and seismic readings. We \expndtw-4 had fine team spirit and we all knew we were getting \expndtw-6 priceless training in field geophysics. I decided privately \expndtw-4 that after the war I would take my doctorate in geophys\-\expndtw-1 ics. Under Dr. Lewis, of course.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3379\cf1\expndtw2\fs22 THE SECRET PLACE\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-14 237\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri38\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 In early summer of 1944 the field phase ended. The \expndtw1 contract drillers left. We packed tons of well logs and \expndtw-2 many boxes of gravimetric data sheets and seismic tapes \expndtw-1 for a move to Dr. Lewis's Midwestern university. There \expndtw-3 we would get more months of valuable training while we \expndtw4 worked our data into a set of structure contour maps. \expndtw2 We were all excited and talked a lot about being with \expndtw0 girls again and going to parties. Then the army said part \expndtw-3 of the staff had to continue the field search. For technical \expndtw4 compliance, Dr. Lewis decided to leave one man, and \expndtw0 he chose me.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 It hit me hard. It was like being flunked out unfairly. I thought he was heartlessly brusque about it.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Take a jeep run through the area with a Geiger once \expndtw-1 a day," he said. "Then sit in the office and answer the \expndtw4 phone."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "What if the army calls when I'm away?" I asked \expndtw-6 sullenly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Hire a secretary," he said. "You've an allowance for \expndtw4 that."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 So off they went and left me, with the title of field \expndtw-1 chief and only myself to boss. I felt betrayed to the hos\-\expndtw-2 tile town. I decided I hated Colonel Lewis and wished I \expndtw4 could get revenge. A few days later old Dave Gentry \expndtw1 told me how.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 He was a lean, leathery old man with a white mustache \expndtw5 and I sat next to him in my new place at the "town" \expndtw1 table. Those were grim meals. I heard remarks about \expndtw-1 healthy young men skulking out of uniform and wasting \expndtw-3 tax money. One night I slammed my fork into my half-\expndtw3 emptied plate and stood up.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "The army sent me here and the army keeps me here," \expndtw4 I told the dozen old men and women at the table. "I'd \expndtw-2 like to go overseas and cut Japanese throats for you kind \expndtw0 hearts and gentle people, I really would! Why don't you all write your Congressman?"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 I stamped outside and stood at one end of the veranda, \expndtw1 boiling. Old Dave followed me out.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Hold your horses, son," he said. "They hate the gov\-\expndtw3 ernment, not you. But government's like the weather, \expndtw5 and you're a man they can get aholt of."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "With their teeth," I said bitterly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1829\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 238\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4\i Richard McKenna\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri62\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "They got reasons," Dave said. "Lost mines ain't sup\-\expndtw0 posed to be found the way you people are going at it. \expndtw-2 Besides that, the Crazy Kid mine belongs to us here in \expndtw4 Barker."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 He was past seventy and he looked after horses in the local feedyard. He wore a shabby, open vest over faded \expndtw3 suspenders and gray flannel shirts and nobody would \expndtw-2 ever have looked for wisdom in that old man. But it was \expndtw0 there.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "This is big, new, lonesome country and it's hard on \expndtw0 people," he said. "Every town's got a story about a lost \expndtw3 mine or a lost gold cache. Only kids go looking for it. \expndtw-1 It's enough for most folks just to know it's there. It helps \expndtw4 'em to stand the country."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "I see," I said. Something stirred in the back of my \expndtw-4 mind.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Barker never got its lost mine until thirteen years \expndtw0 ago," Dave said. "Folks just naturally can't stand to see \expndtw-1 you people find it this way, by main force and so soon \expndtw3 after."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "We know there isn't any mine," I said. "We're just \expndtw3 proving it isn't there."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "If you could prove that, it'd be worse yet," he said. \expndtw-1 "Only you can't. We all saw and handled that ore. It was \expndtw-2 quartz, just rotten with gold in wires and flakes. The boy \expndtw3 went on foot from his house to get it. The lode's got to \expndtw4 be right close by out there."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 He waved toward our search area. The air above it \expndtw-3 was luminous with twilight and I felt a curious surge of interest. Colonel Lewis had always discouraged us from \expndtw4 speculating on that story. If one of us brought it up, I \expndtw-2 was usually the one who led the hooting and we all sug\-\expndtw-1 gested he go over the search area with a dowsing rod. It \expndtw-2 was an article of faith with us that the vein did not exist. \expndtw2 But now I was all alone and my own field boss.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li62\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 We each put up one foot on the veranda rail arid rested \expndtw1 our arms on our knees. Dave bit off a chew of tobacco \expndtw3 and told me about Owen Price.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li67\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 "He was always a crazy kid and I guess he read every \expndtw-1 book in town," Dave said. "He had a curious heart, that \expndtw2 boy."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li283\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 I'm no folklorist, but even I could see how myth ele-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3389\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE SECRET PLACE\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 239\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri62\sb211\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 ments were already creeping into the story. For one \expndtw1 thing, Dave insisted the boy's shirt was torn off and he \expndtw2 had lacerations on his back.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Like a cougar clawed him," Dave said. "Only they \expndtw0 ain't never been cougars in that desert. We backtracked \expndtw1 that boy till his trail crossed itself so many times it was \expndtw4 no use, but we never found one cougar track."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 I could discount that stuff, of course, but still the story \expndtw-1 gripped me. Maybe it was Dave's slow, sure voice; per\-\expndtw-2 haps the queer twilight; possibly my own wounded pride. \expndtw0 I thought of how great lava upwellings sometimes tear \expndtw-2 loose and carry along huge masses of the country rock. \expndtw2 Maybe such an erratic mass lay out there, perhaps only \expndtw3 a few hundred feet across and so missed by our drill \expndtw-2 cores, but rotten with uranium. If I could find it, I would \expndtw4 make a fool of Colonel Lewis. I would discredit the \expndtw6 whole science of geology. I, Duard Campbell, the \expndtw4 despised and rejected one, could do that. The front of \expndtw-2 my mind shouted that it was nonsense, but something far \expndtw2 back in my mind began composing a devastating letter \expndtw1 to Colonel Lewis and comfort flowed into me.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "There's some say the boy's youngest sister could tell \expndtw1 where he found it, if she wanted," Dave said. "She used \expndtw0 to go into that desert with him a lot. She took on pretty \expndtw-1 wild when it happened and then was struck dumb, but I \expndtw4 hear she talks again now." He shook his head. "Poor little Helen. She promised to be a pretty girl."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Where does she live?" I asked.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri19\sl-230\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "With her mother in Salem," Dave said. "She went to business school and I hear she works for a lawyer there."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li53\sb221\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Mrs. Price was a flinty old woman who seemed to con\-\expndtw-1 trol her daughter absolutely. She agreed Helen would be \expndtw0 my secretary as soon as I told her the salary. I got Hel\-\expndtw3 en's security clearance with one phone call; she had \expndtw-2 already been investigated as part of tracing that uranium crystal. Mrs. Price arranged for Helen to stay with a fam\-\expndtw1 ily she knew in Barker, to protect her reputation. It was \expndtw5 in no danger. I meant to make love to her, if I had to, \expndtw6 to charm her out of her secret, if she had one, but I would not harm her. I knew perfectly well that I was\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1829\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 240\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4\i Richard McKenna\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri48\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 only playing a game called "The Revenge of Duard \expndtw3 Campbell." I knew I would not find any uranium.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 Helen was a plain little girl and she was made of fright\-ened ice. She wore low-heeled shoes and cotton stockings \expndtw0 and plain dresses with white cuffs and collars. Her one \expndtw-2 good feature was her flawless fair skin against which her \expndtw-3 peaked, black Welsh eyebrows and smoky blue eyes gave \expndtw0 her an elfin look at times. She liked to sit neatly tucked \expndtw2 into herself, feet together, elbows in, eyes cast down, \expndtw1 voice hardly audible, as smoothly self-contained as an \expndtw-1 egg. The desk I gave her faced mine and she sat like that \expndtw-2 across from me and did the busy work I gave her, and I \expndtw4 could not get through to her at all.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 I tried joking and I tried polite little gifts and atten\-\expndtw-1 tions, and I tried being sad and needing sympathy. She listened and worked and stayed as far away as the moon. It was only after two weeks and by pure accident that I \expndtw4 found the key to her.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 I was trying the sympathy gambit. I said it was not so \expndtw2 bad, being exiled from friends and family, but what I \expndtw0 could not stand was the dreary sameness of that search \expndtw-1 area. Every spot was like every other spot and there was no single, recognizable \i place \i0 in the whole expanse. It \expndtw3 sparked something in her and she roused up at me.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "It's full of just wonderful places," she said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Come out with me in the jeep and show me one," I \expndtw-4 challenged.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 She was reluctant, but I hustled her along regardless. \expndtw-1 I guided the jeep between outcrops, jouncing and lurch\-\expndtw6 ing. I had our map photographed on my mind and I \expndtw-2 knew where we were every minute, but only by map \expndtw-1 coordinates. The desert had our marks on it: well sites, \expndtw2 seismic blast holes, wooden stakes, cans, bottles and \expndtw-2 papers blowing in that everlasting wind, and it was all \expndtw-1 dismally the same anyway.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Tell me when we pass a 'place' and I'll stop," I said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "It's all places," she said. "Right here's a place."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 I stopped the jeep and looked at her in surprise. Her \expndtw-1 voice was strong and throaty. She opened her eyes wide \expndtw3 and smiled; I had never seen her look like that.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li278\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "What's special, that makes it a place?" I asked.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 She did not answer. She got out and walked a few\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3379\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE SECRET PLACE\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-21 241\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri77\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 steps. Her whole posture was changed. She almost \expndtw2 danced along. I followed and touched her shoulder.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Tell me what's special," I said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri67\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 She faced around and stared right past me. She had a \expndtw2 new grace and vitality and she was a very pretty girl.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "It's where all the dogs are," she said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Dogs?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 I looked around at the scrubby sagebrush and thin soil \expndtw-2 and ugly black rock and back at Helen. Something was \expndtw-6 wrong.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Big, stupid dogs that go in herds and eat grass," she \expndtw2 said. She kept turning and gazing. "Big cats chase the \expndtw1 dogs and eat them. The dogs scream and scream. Can't \expndtw4 you hear them?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "That's crazy!" I said. "What's the matter with you?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs23 I might as well have slugged her. She crumpled instantly \expndtw0 back into herself and I could hardly hear her answer.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "I'm sorry. My brother and I used to play out fairy \expndtw-1 tales here. All this was a kind of fairyland to us." Tears \expndtw6 formed in her eyes. "I haven't been here since \expndtw42 ...\expndtw6  I \expndtw0 forgot myself. I'm sorry."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri29\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 I had to swear I needed to dictate "field notes" to \expndtw3 force Helen into that desert again. She sat stiffly with \expndtw5 pad and pencil in the jeep while I put on my act with \expndtw-1 the Geiger and rattled off jargon. Her lips were pale and \expndtw-2 compressed and I could see her fighting against the spell \expndtw0 the desert had for her, and I could see her slowly losing.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 She finally broke down into that strange mood and I \expndtw-1 took good care not to break it. It was weird but wonder\-\expndtw2 ful, and I got a lot of data. I made her go out for "field \expndtw5 notes" every morning and each tune it was easier to \expndtw-3 break her down. Back in the office she always froze again \expndtw-1 and I marveled at how two such different persons could inhabit the same body. I called her two phases "Office \expndtw6 Helen" and "Desert Helen."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li62\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 I often talked with old Dave on the veranda after din\-\expndtw4 ner. One night he cautioned me.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li72\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Folks here think Helen ain't been right in the head \expndtw6 since her brother died," he said. "They're worrying \expndtw4 about you and her."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li288\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw8\fs23 "I feel like a big brother to her," I said. "I'd never\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1829\cf1\expndtw-7\fs21 242\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4\i Richard McKenna\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri43\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 hurt her, Dave. If we find the lode, I'll stake the best \expndtw-1 claim for her."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 He shook his head. I wished I could explain to him \expndtw-3 how it was only a harmless game I was playing and no \expndtw-4 one would ever find gold out there. Yet, as a game, it \expndtw-5 fascinated me.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 Desert Helen charmed me when, helplessly, she had \expndtw-5 to uncover her secret life. She was a little girl in a wom\-an's body. Her voice became strong and breathless with \expndtw-2 excitement and she touched me with the same wonder \expndtw-6 that turned her own face vivid and elfin. She ran laughing \expndtw-5 through the black rocks and scrubby sagebrush and \expndtw-2 momentarily she made them beautiful. She would pull \expndtw-4 me along by the hand and sometimes we ran as much as \expndtw0 a mile away from the jeep. She treated me as if I were \expndtw-5 a Wind or foolish child.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "No, no, Duard, that's a cliff!" she would say, pulling me back.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 She would go first, so I could find the stepping stones across streams. I played up. She pointed out woods and \expndtw-6 streams and cliffs and castles. There were shaggy horses with claws, golden birds, camels, witches, elephants and \expndtw1 many other creatures. I pretended to see them all, and \expndtw-4 it made her trust me. She talked and acted out the fairy \expndtw-7 tales she had once played with Owen. Sometimes he was \expndtw-2 enchanted and sometimes she, and the one had to dare \expndtw-5 the evil magic of a witch or giant to rescue the other. Sometimes I was Duard and other times I almost thought \expndtw-4 I was Owen.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 Helen and I crept into sleeping castles, and we hid \expndtw-5 with pounding hearts while the giant grumbled in search \expndtw0 of us and we fled, hand in hand, before his wrath.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 Well, I had her now. I played Helen's game, but I \expndtw0 never lost sight of my own. Every night I sketched in \expndtw1 on my map whatever I had learned that day of the \expndtw-3 fairyland topography. Its geomorphology was remark\-\expndtw-5 ably consistent.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 When we played, I often hinted about the giant's trea\-sure. Helen never denied it existed, but she seemed trou\-\expndtw-1 bled and evasive about it. She would put her finger to her lips and look at me with solemn, round eyes.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs24 "You only take the things nobody cares about," she\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3379\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE SECRET PLACE\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 243\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 would say. "If you take the gold or jewels, it brings you \expndtw3 terrible bad luck."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri58\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "I got a charm against bad luck and I'll let you have \expndtw1 it too," I said once. "It's the biggest, strongest charm in \expndtw2 the whole world."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri53\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "No. It all turns into trash. It turns into goat beans \expndtw3 and dead snakes and things," she said crossly. "Owen \expndtw5 told me. It's a rule, in fairyland."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Another tune we talked about it as we sat in a gloomy \expndtw2 ravine near a waterfall. We had to keep our voices low \expndtw-2 or we would wake up the giant. The waterfall was really \expndtw-1 the giant snoring and it was also the wind that blew for\-\expndtw2 ever across that desert.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Doesn't Owen ever take anything?" I asked.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 I had learned by then that I must always speak of \expndtw3 Owen in the present tense.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li24\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Sometimes he has to," she said. "Once right here the witch had me enchanted into an ugly toad. Owen put a \expndtw2 flower on my head and that made me be Helen again."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "A really truly flower? That you could take home with \expndtw-1 you?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "A red-and-yellow flower bigger than my two hands," \expndtw0 she said. "I tried to take it home, but all the petals came \expndtw2 off."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Does Owen ever take anything home?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Rocks, sometimes," she said. "We keep them in a \expndtw0 secret nest in the shed. We think they might be magic \expndtw-2 eggs."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 I stood up. "Come and show me."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 She shook her head vigorously and drew back. "I don't \expndtw5 want to go home," she said. "Not ever."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 She squirmed and pouted, but I pulled her to her feet.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Please, Helen, for me," I said. "Just for one little \expndtw2 minute."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 I pulled her back to the jeep and we drove to the old \expndtw4 Price place. I had never seen her look at it when we \expndtw-3 passed it and she did not look now. She was freezing fast \expndtw0 back into Office Helen. But she led me around the sag\-\expndtw-2 ging old house with its broken windows and into a tum\-\expndtw-1 ble-down shed. She scratched away some straw in one \expndtw4 corner, and there were the rocks. I did not realize how\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1829\cf1\expndtw-7\fs21 244\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Richard\b  \b0 McKenna\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 excited I was until disappointment hit me like a blow in the stomach.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li5\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 They were worthless waterworn pebbles of quartz and \expndtw-5 rosy granite. The only thing special about them was that \expndtw-1 they could never have originated on that basalt desert.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri34\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 After a few weeks we dropped the pretense of field \expndtw-4 notes and simply went into the desert to play. I had Hel\-\expndtw-2 en's fairyland almost completely mapped. It seemed to \expndtw-3 be a recent fault block mountain with a river parallel to \expndtw-5 its base and a gently sloping plain across the river. The \expndtw-1 scarp face was wooded and cut by deep ravines and it \expndtw-4 had castles perched on its truncated spurs. I kept check\-\expndtw-6 ing Helen on it and never found her inconsistent. Several \expndtw-5 times when she was in doubt I was able to tell her where she was, and that let me even more deeply into her secret \expndtw-2 life. One morning I discovered just how deeply.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 She was sitting on a log in the forest and plaiting a \expndtw-4 little basket out of fern fronds. I stood beside her. She \expndtw-1 looked up at me and smiled.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "What shall we play today, Owen?" she asked.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs24 I had not expected that, and I was proud of how \expndtw0 quickly I rose to it. I capered and bounded away and \expndtw1 then back to her and crouched at her feet.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs24 "Little sister, little sister, I'm enchanted," I said. \expndtw-1 "Only you in all the world can uncharm me."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "I'll uncharm you," she said, in that little girl voice. \expndtw1 "What are you, brother?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "A big, black dog," I said. "A wicked giant named \expndtw-6 Lewis Rawbones keeps me chained up behind his castle \expndtw0 while he takes all the other dogs out hunting."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 She smoothed her gray skirt over her knees. Her \expndtw-3 mouth drooped.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li53\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "You're lonesome and you howl all day and you howl \expndtw0 all night," she said. "Poor doggie."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 I threw back my head and howled.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "He's a terrible, wicked giant and he's got all kinds of terrible magic," I said. "You mustn't be afraid, little sis\-\expndtw1 ter. As soon as you uncharm me I'll be a handsome \expndtw0 prince and I'll cut off his head."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 "I'm not afraid." Her eyes sparkled. "I'm not afraid \expndtw0 of fire or snakes or pins or needles or anything."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3379\cf1\expndtw2\fs22 THE SECRET PLACE\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-14 245\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri58\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I'll take you away to my kingdom and we'll live hap\-\expndtw2 pily ever afterward. You'll be the most beautiful queen in the world and everybody will love you."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 I wagged my tail and laid my head on her knees. She \expndtw2 stroked my silky head and pulled my long black ears.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri72\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 "Everybody will love me." She was very serious now. \expndtw2 "Will magic water uncharm you, poor old doggie?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "You have to touch my forehead with a piece of the \expndtw0 giant's treasure," I said. "That's the only onliest way to \expndtw2 uncharm me."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 I felt her shrink away from me. She stood up, her face \expndtw0 suddenly crumpled with grief and anger.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw9\fs23 "You're not Owen, you're just a man! Owen's \expndtw-1 enchanted and I'm enchanted too and nobody will ever \expndtw0 uncharm us!"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 She ran away from me and she was already Office \expndtw4 Helen by the tune she reached the jeep.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri24\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 After that day she refused flatly to go into the desert \expndtw-2 with me. It looked as if my game was played out. But I \expndtw1 gambled that Desert Helen could still hear me, under\-\expndtw-1 neath somewhere, and I tried a new strategy. The office was an upstairs room over the old dance hall and, I sup\-\expndtw1 pose, in frontier days skirmishing had gone on there \expndtw-1 between men and women. I doubt anything went on as \expndtw2 strange as my new game with Helen.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 I always had paced and talked while Helen worked. \expndtw-1 Now I began mixing common-sense talk with fairyland \expndtw-2 talk and I kept coming back to the wicked giant, Lewis \expndtw1 Rawbones. Office Helen tried not to pay attention, but \expndtw2 now and then I caught Desert Helen peeping at me out \expndtw-1 of her eyes. I spoke of my blighted career as a geologist \expndtw3 and how it would be restored to me if I found the lode. \expndtw0 I mused on how I would live and work in exotic places and how I would need a wife to keep house for me and \expndtw-1 help with my paper work. It disturbed Office Helen. She \expndtw3 made typing mistakes and dropped things. I kept it up \expndtw2 for days, trying for just the right mixture of fact and \expndtw3 fantasy, and it was hard on Office Helen.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 One night old Dave warned me again.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Helen's looking peaked, and there's talk around. Miz \expndtw1 Fowler says Helen don't sleep and she cries at night and\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1824\cf1\expndtw-8\fs24 246\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4\i Richard McKenna\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sb202\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 she won't tell Miz Fowler what's wrong. You don't hap\-\expndtw4 pen to know what's bothering her, do you?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "I only talk business stuff to her," I said. "Maybe she's \expndtw0 homesick. I'll ask her if she wants a vacation." I did not \expndtw2 like the way Dave looked at me. "I haven't hurt her. I \expndtw4 don't mean her any harm, Dave," I said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "People get killed for what they do, not for what they \expndtw6 mean," he said. "Son, there's men in this here town \expndtw5 would kill you quick as a coyote, if you hurt Helen \expndtw1 Price."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 I worked on Helen all the next day and in the after\-\expndtw4 noon I hit just the right note and I broke her defenses. \expndtw-1 I was not prepared for the way it worked out. I had just \expndtw0 said, "All life is a kind of playing. If you think about it \expndtw-3 right, everything we do is a game." She poised her pencil \expndtw0 and looked straight at me, as she had never done in that \expndtw3 office, and I felt my heart speed up.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "You taught me how to play, Helen. I was so serious \expndtw5 that I didn't know how to play."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Owen taught me to play. He bad magic. My sisters \expndtw-1 couldn't play anything but dolls and rich husbands and I \expndtw5 hated them."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Her eyes opened wide and her lips trembled and she \expndtw2 was almost Desert Helen right there in the office.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "There's magic and enchantment in regular life, if you \expndtw6 look at it right," I said. "Don't you think so, Helen?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "I know it!" she said. She turned pale and dropped \expndtw-2 her pencil. "Owen was enchanted into having a wife and \expndtw2 three daughters and he was just a boy. But he was the \expndtw4 only man we had and all of them but me hated him \expndtw5 because we were so poor." She began to tremble and \expndtw0 her voice went flat. "He couldn't stand it. He took the \expndtw2 treasure and it killed him." Tears ran down her cheeks. "I tried to think he was only enchanted into play-dead \expndtw8 and if I didn't speak or laugh for seven years, I'd \expndtw1 uncharm him."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 She dropped her head on her hands. I was alarmed. I \expndtw3 came over and put my hand on her shoulder.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I did speak." Her shoulders heaved with sobs. "They \expndtw1 made me speak, and now Owen won't ever come back."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 I bent and put my arm across her shoulders.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3379\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE SECRET PLACE\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 247\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri72\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Don't cry, Helen. He'll come back," I said. "There \expndtw3 are other magics to bring him back."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri72\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 I hardly knew what I was saying. I was afraid of what \expndtw5 I had done, and I wanted to comfort her. She jumped \expndtw3 up and threw off my arm.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "I can't stand it! I'm going home!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 She ran out into the hall and down the stairs and from \expndtw2 the window I saw her run down the street, still crying. \expndtw-1 All of a sudden my game seemed cruel and stupid to me \expndtw0 and right that moment I stopped it. I tore up my map of \expndtw-2 fairyland and my letters to Colonel Lewis and I wondered \expndtw3 how in the world I could ever have done all that.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 After dinner that night old Dave motioned me out to one end of the veranda. His face looked carved out of \expndtw-5 wood.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "I don't know what happened in your office today, \expndtw3 and for your sake I better not find out. But you send \expndtw5 Helen back to her mother on the morning stage, you \expndtw4 hear me?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "All right, if she wants to go," I said. "I can't just fire \expndtw5 her."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "I'm speaking for the boys. You better put her on that \expndtw4 morning stage, or we'll be around to talk to you."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "All right, I will, Dave."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 I wanted to tell him how the game was stopped now \expndtw6 and how I wanted a chance to make things up with \expndtw2 Helen, but I thought I had better not. Dave's voice was \expndtw-1 flat and savage with contempt and, old as he was, he \expndtw0 frightened me.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri24\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Helen did not come to work in the morning. At nine \expndtw0 o'clock I went out myself for the mail. I brought a large \expndtw4 mailing tube and some letters back to the office. The \expndtw-1 first letter I opened was from Dr. Lewis, and almost like \expndtw0 magic it solved all my problems.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 On the basis of his preliminary structure contour maps \expndtw0 Dr. Lewis had gotten permission to close out the field phase. Copies of the maps were in the mailing tube, for \expndtw-1 my information. I was to hold an inventory and be ready \expndtw0 to turn everything over to an army quartermaster team \expndtw3 coming in a few days. There was still a great mass of \expndtw2 data to be worked up in refining the maps. I was to join\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1838\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 248\expndtw0\tab\expndtw1\i Richard McKenna\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 the group again and I would have a chance at the lab \expndtw-2 work after all.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 I felt pretty good. I paced and whistled and snapped \expndtw-5 my fingers. I wished Helen would come, to help on the \expndtw-4 inventory. Then I opened the tube and looked idly at the \expndtw1 maps. There were a lot of them, featureless bed after \expndtw-5 bed of basalt, like layers of a cake ten miles across. But \expndtw-6 when I came to the bottom map, of the prevolcanic Mio\-\expndtw-1 cene landscape, the hair on my neck stood up.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi187\li34\ri53\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 / \i had made that map myself. It was Helen's fairyland. \expndtw0 The topography was point by point the same.\cf0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri24\sb211\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 I clenched my fists and stopped breathing. Then it hit \expndtw-1 me a second time, and the skin crawled up my back.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi240\li10\ri19\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\i\fs23 The game was real. I couldn't end it. All the time the \expndtw1 game had been playing me. It was still playing me.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri19\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 I ran out and down the street and overtook old Dave \expndtw0 hurrying toward the feedyard. He had a bolstered gun \expndtw-2 on each hip.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 "Dave, I've got to find Helen," I said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "Somebody seen her hiking into the desert just at day\-\expndtw-4 light," he said. "I'm on my way for a horse." He did not slow his stride. "You better get out there in your stink-\expndtw0 wagon. If you don't find her before we do, you better just keep on going, son."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri5\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 I ran back and got the jeep and roared it out across the scrubby sagebrush. I hit rocks and I do not know \expndtw-5 why I did not break something. I knew where to go and \expndtw-1 feared what I would find there. I knew I loved Helen \expndtw0 Price more than my own life and I knew I had driven \expndtw1 her to her death.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 I saw her far off, running and dodging. I headed the jeep to intercept her and I shouted, but she neither saw \expndtw2 me nor heard me. I stopped and jumped out and ran \expndtw-4 after her and the world darkened. Helen was all I could \expndtw0 see, and I could not catch up with her.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "Wait for me, little sister!" I screamed after her. "I \expndtw-1 love you, Helen! Wait for me!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3413\cf1\expndtw2\fs22 THE SECRET PLACE\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-20 249\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\ri43\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 She stopped and crouched and I almost ran over her. I knelt and put my arms around her and then it was on \expndtw-6 us.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 They say in an earthquake, when the direction of up \expndtw-1 and down tilts and wobbles, people feel a fear that drives \expndtw0 them mad if they can not forget it afterward, This was \expndtw3 worse. Up and down and here and there and now and \expndtw2 then all rushed together. The wind roared through the \expndtw0 rock beneath us and the air thickened crushingly above \expndtw-1 our heads. I know we clung to each other, and we were \expndtw3 there for each other while nothing else was and that is all I know, until we were in the jeep and I was guiding it back toward town as headlong as I had come.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Then the world had shape again under a bright sun. I \expndtw-2 saw a knot of horsemen on the horizon. They were head\-\expndtw3 ing for where Owen had been found. That boy had run a long way, alone and hurt and burdened.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 I got Helen up to the office. She sat at her desk with \expndtw1 her head down on her hands and she quivered violently. \expndtw6 I kept my arm around her.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "It was only a storm inside our two heads, Helen," I \expndtw-1 said, over and over. "Something black blew away out of \expndtw1 us. The game is finished and we're free and I love you."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Over and over I said that, for my sake as well as hers. \expndtw-1 I meant and believed it. I said she was my wife and we \expndtw1 would marry and go a thousand miles away from that \expndtw0 desert to raise our children. She quieted to a trembling, \expndtw4 but she would not speak. Then I heard hoofbeats and \expndtw1 the creak of leather in the street below and then I heard \expndtw3 slow footsteps on the stairs.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Old Dave stood in the doorway. His two guns looked \expndtw0 as natural on him as hands and feet. He looked at Helen, \expndtw3 bowed over the desk, and then at me, standing beside \expndtw-1 her.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li34\ri10\sb14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Come on down, son. The boys want to talk to you," \expndtw0 he said.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sb5\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 I followed him into the hall and stopped.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "She isn't hurt," I said. "The lode is really out there, \expndtw3 Dave, but nobody is ever going to find it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "Tell that to the boys."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "We're closing out the project in a few more days," I\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1829\cf1\expndtw-11\fs22 250\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-2\i Richard McKenna\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 said. "I'm going to marry Helen and take her away with \expndtw1 me."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-7\fs24 "Come down or we'll drag you down!" he said harshly. \expndtw0 "We'll send Helen back to her mother."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs24 I was afraid. I did not know what to do.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs24 "No, you won't send me back to my mother!"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 It was Helen beside me in the hall, She was Desert \expndtw1 Helen, but grown up and wonderful. She was pale, \expndtw-1 pretty, aware and sure of herself.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "I'm going with Duard," she said. "Nobody in the \expndtw-4 world is ever going to send me around like a package again."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 Dave rubbed his jaw and squinted his eyes at her.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs24 "I love her, Dave," I said. "I'll take care of her all \expndtw-3 my life."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 I put my left arm around her and she nestled against me. The tautness went out of old Dave and he smiled. \expndtw-1 He kept his eyes on Helen.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 "Little Helen Price," he said, wonderingly. "Who ever \expndtw-5 would've thought it?" He reached out and shook us both gently. "Bless you youngsters," he said, and blinked his \expndtw1 eyes. "I'll tell the boys it's all right."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li34\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 He turned and went slowly down the stairs. Helen and \expndtw-2 I looked at each other, and I think she saw a new face \expndtw-5 too.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li34\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 That was sixteen years ago. I am a professor myself \expndtw-6 now, graying a bit at the temples. I am as positivistic a \expndtw-5 scientist as you will find anywhere in the Mississippi \expndtw-2 drainage basin. When I tell a seminar student "That \expndtw-3 assertion is operationally meaningless," I can make it \expndtw-4 sound downright obscene. The students blush and hate \expndtw-5 me, but it is for their own good. Science is the only safe \expndtw1 game, and it's safe only if it is kept pure. I work hard \expndtw0 at that, I have yet to meet the student I cannot handle.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 My son is another matter. We named him Owen \expndtw-6 Lewis, and he has Helen's eyes and hair and complexion. \expndtw-3 He learned to read on the modern sane and sterile chil\-\expndtw-1 dren's books. We haven't a fairy tale in the house\emdash but \expndtw-6 I have a science library. And Owen makes fairy tales out \expndtw-4 of science. He is taking the measure of space and time \expndtw-5 now, with Jeans and Eddington. He cannot possibly \expndtw-3 understand a tenth of what he reads, in the way I under-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx3374\cf1\expndtw-7\fs22 THE SECRET PLACE\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-16 251\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri14\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 stand it. But he understands all of it in some other way \expndtw-6 privately his own.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Not long ago he said to me, "You know, Dad, it isn't \expndtw-4 only space that's expanding. Time's expanding too, and \expndtw0 that's what makes us keep getting farther away from when we used to be."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 And I have to tell him just what I did in the war. I \expndtw-5 know I found manhood and a wife. The how and why of \expndtw-6 it I think and hope I am incapable of fully understanding. \expndtw-1 But Owen has, through Helen, that strangely curious \expndtw0 heart. I'm afraid. I'm afraid he will understand.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\cf1\expndtw-8\fs42 THE KING OF THE ELVES\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb197\cf1\expndtw3\i\fs37 Philip K. Dick\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li34\ri58\sb1488\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 It was raining and getting dark. Sheets of water blew \expndtw0 along the row of pump at the edge of the filling station; \expndtw2 the trees across the highway bent against the wind.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Shadrach Jones stood just inside the doorway of the \expndtw-2 little building, leaning against an oil drum. The door was \expndtw3 open and gusts of rain blew in onto the wood floor. It \expndtw-1 was late; the sun had set, and the air was turning cold. \expndtw0 Shadrach reached into his coat and brought out a cigar. \expndtw3 He bit the end off it and lit it carefully, turning away from the door. In the gloom, the cigar burst into life, \expndtw-1 warm and glowing. Shadrach took a deep draw. He but\-\expndtw1 toned his coat around him and stepped out onto the \expndtw-3 pavement.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Darn," he said. "What a night!" Rain buffeted him, \expndtw-3 wind blew at him. He looked up and down the highway, \expndtw4 squinting. There were no cars in sight. He shook his \expndtw2 head, locked up the gasoline pumps.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 He went back into the building and pulled the door \expndtw7 shut behind him. He opened the cash register and \expndtw1 counted the money he'd taken in during the day. It was \expndtw0 not much.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li67\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 Not much, but enough for one old man. Enough to \expndtw-2 buy him tobacco and firewood and magazines, so that he could be comfortable as he waited for the occasional cars to come by. Not very many cars came along the highway \expndtw-1 any more. The highway had begun to fall into disrepair; \expndtw3 there were many cracks in its dry, rough surface, and \expndtw4 most cars preferred to take the big state highway that \expndtw-1 ran beyond the hills. There was nothing in Derryville to \expndtw7 attract them, to make them turn toward it. Derryville\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li86\sb96\qc\cf1\expndtw-7\fs21 252\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1277\tx4944\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE KING OF THE ELVES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 253\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri29\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 was a small town, too small to bring in any of the major industries, too small to be very important to anyone. \expndtw0 Sometimes hours went by without\emdash\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Shadrach tensed. His fingers closed over the money. \expndtw1 From outside came a sound, the melodic ring of the sig\-\expndtw2 nal wire stretched along the pavement. \expndtw-4\i Dinggg!\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri10\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Shadrach dropped the money into the till and pushed \expndtw6 the drawer closed. He stood up slowly and walked \expndtw2 toward the door, listening. At the door, he snapped off \expndtw3 the light and waited in the darkness, staring out.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 He could see no car there. The rain was pouring down, \expndtw-2 swirling with the wind; clouds of mist moved along the \expndtw2 road. And something was standing beside the pumps.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 He opened the door and stepped out. At first, his eyes \expndtw-2 could make nothing out. Then the old man swallowed \expndtw-5 uneasily.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Two tiny figures stood in the rain, holding a kind of \expndtw3 platform between. them. Once, they might have been \expndtw0 gaily dressed in bright garments, but now their clothes \expndtw-2 hung limp and sodden, dripping in the rain. They glanced \expndtw5 halfheartedly at Shadrach. Water streaked their tiny \expndtw-1 faces, great drops of water. Their robes blew about them \expndtw0 with the wind, lashing and swirling.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 On the platform, something stirred. A small head \expndtw-1 turned wearily, peering at Shadrach. In the dim light, a \expndtw0 rain-streaked helmet glinted dully.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Who are you?" Shadrach said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi197\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 The figure on the platform raised itself up. "I'm the \expndtw4 King of the Elves and I'm wet."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Shadrach stared in astonishment.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li19\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "That's right," one of the bearers said. "We're all \expndtw3 wet."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 A small group of elves came straggling up, gathering \expndtw3 around their king. They huddled together forlornly, \expndtw-4 silently.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "The King of the Elves," Shadrach repeated. "Well, \expndtw5 I'll be darned."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Could it be true? They were very small, all right, and \expndtw2 their dripping clothes were strange and oddly colored.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 But \i Elves?\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li38\tx2011\cf1\expndtw-7\fs21 254\expndtw0\tab\expndtw7\i Philip K. Dick\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri62\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "I'll be darned. Well, whatever you are, you shouldn't \expndtw5 be out on a night like this."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Of course not," the king murmured. "No fault of our own. No fault . . ." His voice trailed off into a choking cough. The Elf soldiers peered anxiously at the platform.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\ri58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Maybe you better bring him inside," Shadrach said. \expndtw4 "My place is up the road. He shouldn't be out in the \expndtw3 rain."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Do you think we like being out on a night like this?" \expndtw3 one of the bearers muttered. "Which way is it? Direct us."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Shadrach pointed up the road. "Over there. Just fol\-\expndtw4 low me. I'll get a fire going."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li62\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 He went down the road, feeling his way onto the first of the flat stone steps that he and Phineas Judd had laid \expndtw2 during the summer. At the top of the steps, he looked \expndtw-3 back. The platform was coming slowly along, swaying a \expndtw-1 little from side to side. Behind it, the Elf soldiers picked \expndtw0 their way, a tiny column of silent dripping creatures, \expndtw1 unhappy and cold.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li77\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "I'll get the fire started," Shadrach said. He hurried \expndtw3 them into the house.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li82\ri24\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Wearily, the Elf King lay back against the pillow. \expndtw-3 After sipping hot chocolate, he had relaxed and his heavy \expndtw0 breathing sounded suspiciously like a snore.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li293\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs23 Shadrach shifted in discomfort.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li86\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "I'm sorry," the Elf King said suddenly, opening his \expndtw-1 eyes. He rubbed his forehead. "I must have drifted off. \expndtw3 Where was I?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi302\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "You should retire, Your Majesty," one of the soldiers \expndtw4 said sleepily. "It is late and these are hard times." \expndtw3 . "True," the Elf King said, nodding. "Very true." He \expndtw-1 looked up at the towering figure of Shadrach, standing before the fireplace, a glass of beer in his hand. "Mortal, \expndtw-2 we thank you for your hospitality. Normally, we do not \expndtw2 impose on human beings."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li101\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "It's those Trolls," another of the soldiers said, curled \expndtw3 up on a cushion of the couch.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li101\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Right," another soldier agreed. He sat up, groping \expndtw6 for his sword. "Those reeking Trolls, digging and \expndtw-3 croaking\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1277\tx4954\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE KING OF THE ELVES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 255\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri34\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw13\fs23 "You see," the Elf King went on, "as our party \expndtw1 was crossing from the Great Low Steps toward the Cas\-\expndtw10 tle, where it lies in the hollow of the Towering \expndtw-3 Mountains\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "You mean Sugar Ridge," Shadrach supplied help\-\expndtw-7 fully.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "The Towering Mountains. Slowly we made our way. \expndtw0 A rain storm came up. We became confused. All at once a group of Trolls appeared, crashing through the under\-brush. We left the woods and sought safety on the End\-\expndtw-1 less Path\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "The highway. Route Twenty."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "So that is why we're here." The Elf King paused a \expndtw0 moment. "Harder and harder it rained. The wind blew \expndtw-1 around us, cold and bitter. For an endless time we toiled \expndtw2 along. We had no idea where we were going or what would become of us."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 The Elf King looked up at Shadrach. "We knew only \expndtw7 this: Behind us, the Trolls were coming, creeping \expndtw-1 through the woods, marching through the rain, crushing \expndtw2 everything before them."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 He put his hand to his mouth and coughed, bending \expndtw3 forward. All the Elves waited anxiously until he was done. He straightened up.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "It was kind of you to allow us to come inside. We \expndtw-1 will not trouble you for long. It is not the custom of the \expndtw-5 Elves\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri10\sb5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Again he coughed, covering his face with his hand. \expndtw0 The Elves drew toward him apprehensively. At last the \expndtw1 king stirred. He sighed.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "What's the matter?" Shadrach asked. He went over \expndtw-1 and took the cup of chocolate from the fragile hand. The \expndtw2 Elf King lay back, his eyes shut.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "He has to rest," one of the soldiers said. "Where's \expndtw3 your room? The sleeping room."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Upstairs," Shadrach said. "I'll show you where."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\sb226\sl-216\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Late that night, Shadrach sat by himself in the dark, \expndtw5 deserted living room, deep in meditation. The Elves \expndtw6 were asleep above him, upstairs in the bedroom, the Elf King in the bed, the others curled up together on \expndtw4 the rug.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1973\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 256\expndtw0\tab\expndtw7\i Philip K. Dick\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri38\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The house was silent. Outside, the rain poured down \expndtw3 endlessly, blowing against the house. Shadrach could \expndtw1 hear the tree branches slapping in the wind. He clasped \expndtw6 and unclasped his hands. What a strange business it \expndtw-2 was\emdash all these Elves, with their old, sick king, their pip\-\expndtw1 ing voices. How anxious and peevish they were!\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 But pathetic, too; so small and wet, with water drip\-\expndtw-1 ping down from them, and all their gay robes limp and \expndtw-8 soggy.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The Trolls\emdash what were they like? Unpleasant and not \expndtw-3 very clean. Something about digging, breaking and push\-\expndtw3 ing through the woods . . .\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Suddenly, Shadrach laughed in embarrassment. What \expndtw1 was the matter with him, believing all this? He put his \expndtw-2 cigar out angrily, his ears red. What was going on? What \expndtw2 kind of joke was this?\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Elves? Shadrach grunted in indignation. Elves in Der-\expndtw0 ryville? In the middle of Colorado? Maybe there were \expndtw6 Elves in Europe. Maybe in Ireland. He had heard of \expndtw4 that. But here? Upstairs in his own house, sleeping in \expndtw1 his own bed?\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "I've heard just about enough of this," he said. "I'm \expndtw4 not an idiot, you know."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 He turned toward the stairs, feeling for the banister in \expndtw3 the gloom. He began to climb.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Above him, a light went on abruptly. A door opened.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Two Elves came slowly out onto the landing. They \expndtw2 looked down at him. Shadrach halted halfway up the stairs. Something on their faces made him stop.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "What's the matter?" he asked hesitantly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li43\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 They did not answer. The house was turning cold, cold \expndtw1 and dark, with the chill of the rain outside and the chill of the unknown inside.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "What is it?" he said again. "What's the matter?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "The king is dead," one of the Elves said. "He died \expndtw2 a few moments ago."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Shadrach stared up, wide-eyed. "He did? But\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "He was very old and very tired." The Elves turned \expndtw-3 away, going back into the room, slowly and quietly shut\-\expndtw3 ting the door.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Shadrach stood, his fingers on the banister, hard, lean \expndtw1 fingers, strong and thin.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1277\tx4944\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE KING OF THE ELVES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 257\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li211\sb163\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 He nodded his head blankly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 "I see," he said to the closed door. "He's dead."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri38\sb216\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 The Elf soldiers stood around him in a solemn circle. \expndtw-6 The living room was bright with sunlight, the cold white \expndtw-3 glare of early morning.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "But wait," Shadrach said. He plucked at his necktie. "I have to get to the filling station. Can't you talk to me \expndtw-1 when I come home?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs24 The faces of the Elf soldiers were serious and \expndtw-6 concerned.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "Listen," one of them said. "Please hear us out. It is \expndtw0 very important to us."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Shadrach looked past them. Through the window he \expndtw-4 saw the highway, steaming in the heat of day, and down \expndtw-5 a little way was the gas station, glittering brightly. And \expndtw0 even as he watched, a car came up to it and honked \expndtw-3 thinly, impatiently. When nobody came out of the sta\-\expndtw-1 tion, the car drove off again down the road.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "We beg you," a soldier said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Shadrach looked down at the ring around him, the \expndtw4 anxious faces, scored with concern and trouble. \expndtw-4 Strangely, he had always thought of Elves as carefree beings, flitting without worry or sense\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li34\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 "Go ahead," he said. "I'm listening." He went over \expndtw-5 to the big chair and sat down. The Elves came up around \expndtw-6 him. They conversed among themselves for a moment, \expndtw0 whispering, murmuring distantly. Then they turned \expndtw-5 toward Shadrach.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 The old man waited, his arms folded.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "We cannot be without a king," one of the soldiers said. "We could not survive. Not these days."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "The Trolls," another added. "They multiply very fast. \expndtw-4 They are terrible beasts. They're heavy and ponderous, \expndtw-6 crude, bad-smelling\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "The odor of them is awful. They come up from the \expndtw-4 dark wet places, under the earth, where the blind, grop\-\expndtw-5 ing plants feed in silence, far below the surface, far from \expndtw1 the sun."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li53\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "Well, you ought to elect a king, then," Shadrach sug\-\expndtw1 gested. "I don't see any problem there."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1978\cf1\expndtw-7\fs24 258\expndtw0\tab\expndtw8\i Philip K. Dick\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri48\sb202\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "We do not elect the King of the Elves," a soldier \expndtw2 said. "The old king must name his successor."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Oh," Shadrach replied. "Well, there's nothing wrong \expndtw4 with that method."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "As our old king lay dying, a few distant words came \expndtw1 forth from his lips," a soldier said. "We bent closer, frightened and unhappy, listening."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri53\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Important, all right," agreed Shadrach. "Not some\-\expndtw3 thing you'd want to miss."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "He spoke the name of him who will lead us."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "Good. You caught it, then. Well, where's the \expndtw-3 difficulty?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "The name he spoke was\emdash was your name."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 Shadrach stared. \i "Mine?"\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "The dying king said: 'Make him, the towering mortal, \expndtw0 your king. Many things will come if he leads the Elves \expndtw1 into battle against the Trolls. I see the rising once again \expndtw-1 of the Elf Empire, as it was in the old days, as it was \expndtw-2 before\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\fs23 "Me!" Shadrach leaped up. "Me? King of the Elves?"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Shadrach walked about the room, his hands in his \expndtw0 pockets. "Me, Shadrach Jones, King of the Elves." He \expndtw4 grinned a little. "I sure never thought of it before."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 He went to the mirror over the fireplace and studied \expndtw1 himself. He saw his thin, graying hair, his bright eyes, \expndtw3 dark skin, his big Adam's apple.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "King of the Elves," he said. "King of the Elves. Wait \expndtw2 till Phineas Judd hears about this. Wait till I tell him!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\fs23 Phineas Judd would certainly be surprised!\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri19\sb226\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Above the filling station, the sun shown, high in the \expndtw0 clear blue sky.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 Phineas Judd sat playing with the accelerator of his old \expndtw7 Ford truck. The motor raced and slowed. Phineas \expndtw-1 reached over and turned the ignition key off, then rolled \expndtw1 the window all the way down.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "What did you say?" he asked. He took off his glasses \expndtw2 and began to polish them, steel rims between slender, \expndtw-1 deft fingers that were patient from years of practice. He \expndtw3 restored his glasses to his nose and smoothed what \expndtw2 remained of his hair into place.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1262\tx4934\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE KING OF THE ELVES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 259\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri34\sb211\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "What was it, Shadrach?" he said. "Let's hear that \expndtw0 again."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "I'm King of the Elves," Shadrach repeated. He \expndtw0 changed position, bringing his other foot up on the run-\expndtw-2 ningboard. "Who would have thought it? Me, Shadrach \expndtw3 Jones, King of the Elves."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li10\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Phineas gazed at him. "How long have you been\emdash  \expndtw2 King of the Elves, Shadrach?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Since the night before last."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "I see. The night before last." Phineas nodded. "I see. \expndtw4 And what, may I ask, occurred the night before last?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "The Elves came to my house. When the old Elf king \expndtw4 died, he told them that\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi197\li24\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 A truck came rumbling up and the driver leaped out. \expndtw4 "Water!" he said. "Where the hell is the hose?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Shadrach turned reluctantly. "I'll get it." He turned \expndtw-1 back to Phineas. "Maybe I can talk to you tonight when \expndtw3 you come back from town. I want to tell you the rest. \expndtw2 It's very interesting."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri24\sb5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Sure," Phineas said, starting up his little truck. "Sure, \expndtw4 Shadrach. I'm very interested to hear."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 He drove off down the road.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Later in the day, Dan Green ran his flivver up to the \expndtw-2 filling station.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Hey, Shadrach," he called. "Come over here! I want \expndtw2 to ask you something."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Shadrach came out of the little house, holding a waste-\expndtw2 rag in his hand.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "What is it?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Come here." Dan leaned out the window, a wide grin \expndtw3 on his face, splitting his face from ear to ear. "Let me \expndtw1 ask you something, will you?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Sure."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Is it true? Are you really the King of the Elves?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Shadrach flushed a little. "I guess I am," he admitted, \expndtw4 looking away. "That's what I am, all right."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Dan's grin faded. "Hey, you trying to kid me? What's \expndtw3 the gag?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Shadrach became angry. "What do you mean? Sure, I'm the King of the Elves. And anyone who says I'm \expndtw-2 not\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1982\cf1\expndtw-7\fs21 260\expndtw0\tab\expndtw5\i Philip K. Dick\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri48\sb216\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "All right, Shadrach," Dan said, starting up the flivver \expndtw4 quickly. "Don't get mad. I was just wondering."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\fs23 Shadrach looked very strange.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri53\sl-235\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "All right," Dan said. "You don't hear me arguing, \expndtw3 do you?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri43\sb216\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 By the end of the day, everyone around knew about \expndtw-2 Shadrach and how he had suddenly become King of the \expndtw1 Elves. Pop Richey, who ran the Lucky Store in Derry-\expndtw3 ville, claimed Shadrach was doing it to drum up trade \expndtw1 for the filling station.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "He's a smart old fellow," Pop said. "Not very many \expndtw6 cars go along there any more. He knows what he's \expndtw1 doing."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "I don't know," Dan Green disagreed. "You should \expndtw4 hear him. I think he really believes it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "King of the Elves?" They all began to laugh. "Won\-\expndtw4 der what he'll say next."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Phineas Judd pondered. "I've known Shadrach for \expndtw1 years. I can't figure it out." He frowned, his face wrin\-\expndtw4 kled and disapproving. "I don't like it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Dan looked at him. "Then you think he believes it?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Sure," Phineas said. "Maybe I'm wrong, but I really \expndtw4 think he does."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "But how could he believe it?" Pop asked. "Shadrach \expndtw5 is no fool. He's been in business for a long time. He \expndtw-1 must be getting something out of it, the way I see it. But \expndtw3 what, if it isn't to build up the filling station?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Why, don't you know what he's getting?" Dan said, \expndtw2 grinning. His gold tooth shone.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "What?" Pop demanded.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "He's got a whole kingdom to himself, that's what\emdash  \expndtw-1 to do with like he wants. How would you like that, Pop? \expndtw1 Wouldn't you like to be King of the Elves and not have \expndtw4 to run this old store any more?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "There isn't anything wrong with my store," Pop said. \expndtw2 "I ain't ashamed to run it. Better than being a clothing \expndtw0 salesman."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Dan flushed. "Nothing wrong with that, either." He \expndtw-1 looked at Phineas. "Isn't that right? Nothing wrong with \expndtw2 selling clothes, is there, Phineas?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1267\tx4939\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE KING OF THE ELVES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 261\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri67\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Phineas was staring down at the floor. He glanced up. \expndtw4 "What? What was that?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "What you thinking about?" Pop wanted to know. \expndtw3 "You look worried."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "I'm worried about Shadrach," Phineas said. "He's getting old. Sitting out there by himself all the time, in \expndtw1 the cold weather, with the rain water running over the \expndtw-2 floor\emdash it blows something awful in the winter, along the \expndtw-6 highway\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Then you \i do \i0 think he believes it?" Dan persisted. \expndtw4 "You \i don't \i0 think he's getting something put of it?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Phineas shook his head absently and did not answer.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 The laughter died down. They all looked at one \expndtw0 another.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri34\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 That night, as Shadrach was locking up the filling sta\-\expndtw0 tion, a small figure came toward him from the darkness.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Hey!" Shadrach called out. "Who are you?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 An Elf soldier came into the light, blinking. He was dressed in a little gray robe, buckled at the waist with a \expndtw0 band of silver. On his feet were little leather boots. He \expndtw3 carried a short sword at his side.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "I have a serious message for you," the Elf said. \expndtw5 "Now, where did I put it?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 He searched his robe while Shadrach waited. The Elf brought out a tiny scroll and unfastened it, breaking the \expndtw2 wax expertly. He handed it to Shadrach.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "What's it say?" Shadrach asked. He bent over, his \expndtw1 eyes close to the vellum. "I don't have my glasses with \expndtw4 me. Can't quite make out these little letters."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "The Trolls are moving. They've heard that the old \expndtw-2 king is dead, and they're rising, in all the hills and valleys \expndtw0 around. They will try to break the Elf Kingdom into \expndtw1 fragments, scatter the Elves\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "I see," Shadrach said. "Before your new king can really get started."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "That's right." The Elf soldier nodded. "This is a cru\-\expndtw1 cial moment for the Elves. For centuries, our existence \expndtw-1 has been precarious. There are so many Trolls, and Elves \expndtw2 are very frail and often take sick\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Well, what should I do? Are there any suggestions?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "You're supposed to meet with us under the Great\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1978\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 262\expndtw0\tab\expndtw9\i Philip K. Dick\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri34\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Oak tonight. We'll take you into the Elf Kingdom, and \expndtw-1 you and your staff will plan and map the defense of the Kingdom."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "What?" Shadrach looked uncomfortable. "But I \expndtw1 haven't eaten dinner. And my gas station\emdash tomorrow is \expndtw3 Saturday, and a lot of cars\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "But you are King of the Elves," the soldier said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw8\fs23 Shadrach put his hand to his chin and rubbed it \expndtw-5 slowly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "That's right," he replied. "I am, ain't I?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The Elf soldier bowed.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li10\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I wish I'd known this sort of thing was going to hap\-\expndtw0 pen," Shadrach said. "I didn't suppose being King of the \expndtw-3 Elves\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 He broke off, hoping for an interruption. The Elf sol\-dier watched him calmly, without expression.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "Maybe you ought to have someone else as your \expndtw0 king," Shadrach decided. "I don't know very much about \expndtw1 war and things like that, fighting and all that sort of \expndtw-1 business." He paused, shrugged his shoulders. "It's noth\-\expndtw0 ing I've ever mixed in. They don't have wars here in Colorado. I mean they don't have wars between human beings."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Still the Elf soldier remained silent.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Why was I picked?" Shadrach went on helplessly, twisting his hands. "I don't know anything about it. What \expndtw-3 made him go and pick me? Why didn't he pick somebody \expndtw1 else?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "He trusted you," the Elf said. "You brought him \expndtw1 inside your house, out of the rain. He knew that you \expndtw5 expected nothing for it, that there was nothing you \expndtw-3 wanted. He had known few who gave and asked nothing \expndtw3 back."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Oh." Shadrach thought it over. At last he looked up. "But what about my gas station? And my house? And \expndtw2 what will they say, Dan Green and Pop down at the \expndtw-1 store\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The Elf soldier moved away, out of the light. "I have \expndtw2 to go. It's getting late, and at night the Trolls come out. \expndtw5 I don't want to be too far away from the others."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Sure," Shadrach said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1267\tx4930\cf1\expndtw-8\fs24 THE KING OF THE ELVES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-21 263\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri53\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "The Trolls are afraid of nothing, now that the old \expndtw-3 king is dead. They forage everywhere. No one is safe."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "Where did you say the meeting is to be? And what time?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "At the Great Oak. When the moon sets tonight, just \expndtw-1 as it leaves the sky."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "I'll be there, I guess," Shadrach said. "I suppose \expndtw-5 you're right. The King of the Elves can't afford to let his \expndtw-3 kingdom down when it needs him most."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 He looked around, but the Elf soldier was already \expndtw-9 gone.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 Shadrach walked up the highway, his mind full of \expndtw-6 doubts and wonderings. When he came to the first of the \expndtw-1 flat stone steps, he stopped.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "And the old oak tree is on Phineas's farm! What'll \expndtw-5 Phineas say?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 But he was the Elf King and the Trolls were moving \expndtw-5 in the hills. Shadrach stood listening to the rustle of the \expndtw-6 wind as it moved through the trees beyond the highway, \expndtw-2 and along the far slopes and hills.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi197\li34\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Trolls? Were there really Trolls there, rising up, bold \expndtw-6 and confident in the darkness of the night, afraid of noth\-\expndtw-1 ing, afraid of no one?\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 And this business of being Elf King . . .\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri14\sb5\sl-216\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Shadrach went on up the steps, his lips pressed tight. \expndtw-4 When he reached the top of the stone steps, the last rays \expndtw-2 of sunlight had already faded. It was night.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri10\sb226\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Phineas Judd stared out the window. He swore and \expndtw-1 shook his head. Then he went quickly to the door and \expndtw1 ran out onto the porch. In the cold moonlight a dim \expndtw-8 figure was walking slowly across the lower field, coming \expndtw-2 toward the house along the cow trail.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "Shadrach!" Phineas cried. "What's wrong? What are \expndtw-1 you doing out this time of night?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Shadrach stopped and put his fists stubbornly on his \expndtw-9 hips.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\ri5\sb5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "You go back home," Phineas said. "What's got into you?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\sb10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "I'm sorry, Phineas," Shadrach answered. "I'm sorry \expndtw-2 I have to go over your land. But I have to meet some\-\expndtw2 body at the old oak tree."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1973\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 264\expndtw0\tab\expndtw8\i Philip K. Dick\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "At this time of night?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\fs23 Shadrach bowed his head.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "What's the matter with you, Shadrach? Who in the \expndtw3 world you going to meet in the middle of the night on \expndtw1 my farm?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "I have to meet with the Elves. We're going to plan \expndtw4 out the war with the Trolls."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Well, I'll be damned," Phineas Judd said. He went \expndtw-1 back inside the house and slammed the door. For a long \expndtw1 time he stood thinking. Then he went back out on the porch again. "What did you say you were doing? You \expndtw5 don't have to tell me, of course, but I just\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "I have to meet the Elves at the old oak tree. We \expndtw1 must have a general council of war against the Trolls."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Yes, indeed. The Trolls. Have to watch for the Trolls \expndtw4 all the time."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Trolls are everywhere," Shadrach stated, nodding his \expndtw2 head. "I never realized it before. You can't forget them \expndtw-1 or ignore them. They never forget you. They're always planning, watching you\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Phineas gaped at him, speechless.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Oh, by the way," Shadrach said. "I may be gone for \expndtw-2 some time. It depends on how long this business is going to take. I haven't had much experience in fighting Trolls, so I'm not sure. But I wonder if you'd mind looking after \expndtw4 the gas station for me, about twice a day, maybe once \expndtw0 in the morning and once at night, to make sure no one's \expndtw4 broken in or anything like that."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "You're going away?" Phineas came quickly down the \expndtw7 stairs. "What's all this about Trolls? Why are you \expndtw-2 going?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Shadrach patiently repeated what he had said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "But what for?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Because I'm the Elf King. I have to lead them."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 There was silence. "I see," Phineas said, at last. \expndtw-1 "That's right, you \i did \i0 mention it before, didn't you? But, \expndtw4 Shadrach, why don't you come inside for a while and \expndtw-1 you can tell me about the Trolls and drink some coffee \expndtw-2 and\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Coffee?" Shadrach looked up at the pale moon above \expndtw5 him, the moon and the bleak sky. The world was still\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1277\tx4958\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE KING OF THE ELVES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-21 265\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri38\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 and dead and the night was very cold and the moon \expndtw2 would not be setting for some time.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Shadrach shivered.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "It's a cold night," Phineas urged. "Too cold to be \expndtw3 out. Come on in\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri29\sl-230\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "I guess I have a little time," Shadrach admitted. "A \expndtw-2 cup of coffee wouldn't do any harm. But I can't stay very \expndtw7 long \expndtw35 ..."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri29\sb202\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Shadrach stretched his legs out and sighed. "This cof\-\expndtw3 fee sure tastes good, Phineas."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Phineas sipped a little and put his cup down. The living room was quiet and warm. It was a very neat little living room with solemn pictures on the walls, gray uninterest\-ing pictures that minded their own business. In the corner \expndtw5 was a small reed organ with sheet music carefully \expndtw3 arranged on top of it.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 Shadrach noticed the organ and smiled. "You still \expndtw1 play, Phineas?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Not much any more. The bellows don't work right. \expndtw4 One of them won't come back up."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "I suppose I could fix it sometime. If I'm around, I mean."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "That would be fine," Phineas said. "I was thinking \expndtw1 of asking you."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Remember how you used to play 'Vilia' and Dan \expndtw0 Green came up with that lady who worked for Pop dur\-ing the summer? The one who wanted to open a pottery shop?"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "I sure do," Phineas said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 Presently, Shadrach set down his coffee cup and \expndtw0 shifted in his chair.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "You want more coffee?" Phineas asked quickly. He \expndtw5 stood up. "A little more?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Maybe a little. But I have to be going pretty soon."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "It's a bad night to be outside."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Shadrach looked through the window. It was darker; \expndtw-1 the moon had almost gone down. The fields were stark. \expndtw2 Shadrach shivered. "I wouldn't disagree with you," he \expndtw-6 said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\sb5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Phineas turned eagerly. "Look, Shadrach. You go on \expndtw-2 home where it's warm. You can come out and fight Trolls\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1973\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 266\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i Philip K. Dick\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri48\sb216\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 some other night. There'll always be Trolls. You said so \expndtw-2 yourself. Plenty of time to do that later, when the weath\-\expndtw5 er's better. When it's not so cold."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Shadrach rubbed his forehead wearily. "You know, it \expndtw2 all seems like some sort of a crazy dream. When did I start talking about Elves and Trolls? When did it all begin?" His voice trailed off. "Thank you for the cof\-\expndtw0 fee." He got slowly to his feet. "It warmed me up a lot. And I appreciated the talk. Like old times, you and me \expndtw3 sitting here the way we used to."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Are you going?" Phineas hesitated. \i "Home?"\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "I think I better. It's late."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri38\sb226\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Phineas got quickly to his feet. He led Shadrach to the \expndtw3 door, one arm around his shoulder.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "All right, Shadrach, you go on home. Take a good \expndtw5 hot bath before you go to bed. It'll fix you up. And \expndtw3 maybe just a little snort of brandy to warm the blood."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Phineas opened the front door and they went slowly \expndtw3 down the porch steps, onto the cold, dark ground.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Yes, I guess I'll be going," Shadrach said. "Good \expndtw-3 night\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "You go on home." Phineas patted him on the arm. \expndtw4 "You run along home and take a good hot bath. And then go straight to bed."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "That's a good idea. Thank you, Phineas. I appreciate \expndtw-2 your kindness." Shadrach looked down at Phineas's hand \expndtw2 on his arm. He had not been that close to Phineas for \expndtw-4 years.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li53\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Shadrach contemplated the hand. He wrinkled his \expndtw-1 brow, puzzled.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Phineas's hand was huge and rough and his arms were \expndtw5 short. His fingers were blunt, his nails broken and \expndtw-1 cracked. Almost black, or so it seemed in the moonlight.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li62\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw8\fs23 Shadrach looked up at Phineas. "Strange," he \expndtw-2 murmured.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "What's strange, Shadrach?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li67\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 In the moonlight, Phineas's face seemed oddly heavy \expndtw1 and brutal. Shadrach had never noticed before how the \expndtw-2 jaw bulged, what a great protruding jaw it was. The skin \expndtw9 was yellow and coarse, like parchment. Behind the\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1272\tx4939\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE KING OF THE ELVES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 267\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 glasses, the eyes were like two stones, cold and lifeless. \expndtw3 The ears were immense, the hair stringy and matted.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 Odd that he had never noticed before. But he had \expndtw2 never seen Phineas in the moonlight.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Shadrach stepped away, studying his old friend. From \expndtw-1 a few feet off, Phineas Judd seemed unusually short and \expndtw-2 squat. His legs were slightly bowed. His feet were enor\-\expndtw1 mous. And there was something else\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "What is it?" Phineas demanded, beginning to grow \expndtw1 suspicious. "Is there something wrong?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Something was completely wrong. And he had never \expndtw-1 noticed it, not in all the years they had been friends. All \expndtw7 around Phineas Judd was an odor, a faint, pungent \expndtw2 stench of rot, of decaying flesh, damp and moldy.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Shadrach glanced slowly about him. "Something \expndtw5 wrong?" he echoed. "No, I wouldn't say that."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 By the side of the house was an old rain barrel, half \expndtw2 fallen apart. Shadrach walked over to it.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "No, Phineas. I wouldn't exactly say there's something wrong."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "What are you doing?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Me?" Shadrach took hold of one of the barrel staves \expndtw-1 and pulled it loose. He walked back to Phineas, carrying \expndtw-2 the barrel stave carefully. "I'm King of the Elves. Who\emdash  \expndtw1 or what\emdash are you?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Phineas roared and attacked with his great murderous shovel hands.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Shadrach smashed him over the head with the barrel \expndtw1 stave. Phineas bellowed with rage and pain.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 At the shattering sound, there was a clatter and from \expndtw-1 underneath the house came a furious horde of bounding, \expndtw3 leaping creatures, dark bent-over things, their bodies \expndtw-2 heavy and squat, their feet and heads immense. Shadrach \expndtw0 took one look at the flood of dark creatures pouring out \expndtw2 from Phineas's basement. He knew what they were.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Help!" Shadrach shouted. "Trolls! Help!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The Trolls were all around him, grabbing hold of him, \expndtw-3 tugging at him, climbing up him, pummeling his face and \expndtw-6 body.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li53\sb10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 Shadrach fell to with the barrel stave, swung again and \expndtw0 again, kicking Trolls with his feet, whacking them with \expndtw2 the barrel stave. There seemed to be hundreds of them.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1982\cf1\expndtw-11\fs22 268\expndtw0\tab\expndtw3\i Philip K. Dick\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\ri67\sb211\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 More and more poured out from under Phineas's house, \expndtw0 a surging black tide of pot-shaped creatures, their great \expndtw2 eyes and teeth gleaming in the moonlight.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li10\ri62\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Help!" Shadrach cried again, more feebly now. He \expndtw-1 was getting winded. His heart labored painfully. A Troll \expndtw-2 bit his wrist, clinging to his arm. Shadrach flung it away, \expndtw1 pulling loose from the horde clutching his trouser legs, \expndtw2 the barrel stave rising and falling.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 One of the Trolls caught hold of the stave. A whole \expndtw-1 group of them helped, wrenching furiously, trying to pull \expndtw1 it away. Shadrach hung on desperately. Trolls were all \expndtw3 over him, on his shoulders, clinging to his coat, riding \expndtw1 his arms, his legs, pulling his hair\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 He heard a high-pitched clarion call from a long way \expndtw3 off, the sound of some distant golden trumpet, echoing \expndtw1 in the hills.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi197\li38\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The Trolls suddenly stopped attacking. One of them dropped off Shadrach's neck. Another let go of his arm.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 The call came again, this time more loudly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Elves!" a Troll rasped. He turned and moved toward \expndtw2 the sound, grinding his teeth and spitting with fury.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Elves!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 The Trolls swarmed forward, a growing wave of gnash\-\expndtw-1 ing teeth and nails, pushing furiously toward the Elf col\-\expndtw2 umns. The Elves broke formation and joined battle, \expndtw-1 shouting with wild joy in their shrill, piping voices. The \expndtw3 tide of Trolls rushed against them, Troll against Elf, \expndtw1 shovel nails against golden sword, biting jaw against \expndtw-3 dagger.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li278\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Kill the Elves!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Death to the Trolls!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Onward!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li283\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Forward!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li67\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Shadrach fought desperately with the Trolls that were \expndtw-2 still clinging to him. He was exhausted, panting and gasp\-\expndtw1 ing for breath. Blindly, he whacked on and on, kicking \expndtw2 and jumping, throwing Trolls away from him, through \expndtw3 the air and across the ground.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li82\sb226\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 How long the battle raged, Shadrach never knew. He \expndtw-1 was lost in a sea of dark bodies, round and evil-smelling,\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1272\tx4939\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE KING OF THE ELVES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-16 269\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri53\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 clinging to him, tearing, biting, fastened to his nose and \expndtw-3 hair and fingers. He fought silently, grimly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri53\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 All around him, the Elf legions clashed with the Troll \expndtw-3 horde, little groups of struggling warriors on all sides.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 Suddenly Shadrach stopped fighting. He raised his \expndtw-6 head, looking uncertainly around him. Nothing moved. \expndtw-3 Everything was silent. The fighting had ceased.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 A few Trolls still clung to his arms and legs. Shadrach \expndtw3 whacked one with the barrel stave. It howled and \expndtw-1 dropped to the ground. He staggered back, struggling \expndtw-2 with the last troll, who hung tenaciously to his arm.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 "Now you!" Shadrach gasped. He pried the Troll loose \expndtw-4 and flung it into the air. The Troll fell to the ground and \expndtw-2 scuttled off into the night.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li24\ri53\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 There was nothing more. No Troll moved anywhere. All was silent across the bleak moon-swept fields.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 Shadrach sank down on a stone. His chest rose and \expndtw-7 fell painfully. Red specks swam before his eyes. Weakly, \expndtw-3 he got out his pocket handkerchief and wiped his neck \expndtw-5 and face. He closed his eyes, shaking his head from side \expndtw-3 to side.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li29\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-7\fs24 When he opened his eyes again, the Elves were coming \expndtw-5 toward him, gathering their legion together again. The \expndtw-4 Elves were disheveled and bruised. Their golden armor \expndtw-7 was gashed and torn. Their helmets were bent or missing. \expndtw-5 Most of their scarlet plumes were gone. Those that still \expndtw-2 remained were drooping and broken.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 But the battle was over. The war was won. The Troll \expndtw0 hordes had been put to flight.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri10\sb226\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 Shadrach got slowly to his feet. The Elf warriors stood \expndtw0 around him in a circle, gazing up at him with silent \expndtw-5 respect. One of them helped steady him as he put his \expndtw-3 handkerchief away in his pocket.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "Thank you," Shadrach murmured. "Thank you very much."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li53\ri10\sb5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "The Trolls have been defeated," an Elf stated, still awed by what had happened.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Shadrach gazed around at the Elves. There were many \expndtw1 of them, more than he had ever seen before. All the \expndtw2 Elves had turned out for the battle. They were grim-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1973\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 270\expndtw0\tab\expndtw8\i Philip K. Dick\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri53\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 faced, stern with the seriousness of the moment, weary \expndtw1 from the terrible struggle.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Yes, they're gone, all right," Shadrach said. He was \expndtw1 beginning to get his breath. "That was a close call. I'm \expndtw-2 glad you fellows came when you did. I was just about \expndtw1 finished, fighting them all by myself."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "All alone, the King of the Elves held off the entire Troll army," an Elf announced shrilly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Eh?" Shadrach said, taken aback. Then he smiled. \expndtw5 "That's true, I \i did \i0 fight them alone for a while. I \i did \expndtw3\i0 hold off the Trolls all by myself. The whole darn Troll\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li24\cf1\fs23 army."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li302\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "There is more," an Elf said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Shadrach blinked. "More?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Look over here, O King, mightiest of all the Elves. \expndtw3 This way. To the right."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 The Elves led Shadrach over.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "What is it?" Shadrach murmured, seeing nothing at \expndtw4 first. He gazed down, trying to pierce the darkness. "Could we have a torch over here?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Some Elves brought little pine torches.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 There, on the frozen ground, lay Phineas Judd, on his \expndtw1 back. His eyes were blank and staring, his mouth half \expndtw3 open. He did not move. His body was cold and stiff.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "He is dead," an Elf said solemnly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Shadrach gulped in sudden alarm. Cold sweat stood \expndtw-1 out abruptly on his forehead. "My gosh! My old friend! \expndtw5 What have I done?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "You have slain the Great Troll."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\fs23 Shadrach paused.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs26 "I \i what?"\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "You have slain the Great Troll, leader of all the \expndtw1 Trolls."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "This has never happened before," another Elf \expndtw-1 exclaimed excitedly. "The Great Troll has lived for cen\-turies. Nobody imagined he could die. This is our most \expndtw1 historic moment."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li62\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 All the Elves gazed down at the silent form with awe, \expndtw3 awe mixed with more than a little fear.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "Oh, go on!" Shadrach said. "That's just Phineas \expndtw5 Judd."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw12\fs23 But as he spoke, a chill moved up his spine. He\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1267\tx4944\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE KING OF THE ELVES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-22 271\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri62\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 remembered what he had seen a little while before, as \expndtw-3 he stood close by Phineas, as the dying moonlight crossed \expndtw1 his old friend's face.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Look." One of the Elves bent over and unfastened \expndtw0 Phineas's blue-serge vest. He pushed the coat and vest \expndtw3 aside. "See?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Shadrach bent down to look.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs23 He gasped.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Underneath Phineas Judd's blue-serge vest was a suit \expndtw-1 of mail, an encrusted mesh of ancient, rusting iron, fas\-\expndtw2 tened tightly around the squat body. On the mail stood \expndtw3 an engraved insignia, dark and time-worn, embedded \expndtw-2 with dirt and rust. A moldering half-obliterated emblem. \expndtw2 The emblem of a crossed owl leg and toadstool.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 The emblem of the Great Troll.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Golly," Shadrach said. "And \i I\i0  killed him."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi197\li34\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 For a long time he gazed silently down. Then, slowly, \expndtw0 realization began to grow in him. He straightened up, a smile forming on his face.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "What is it, O King?" an Elf piped.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I just thought of something," Shadrach said. "I just \expndtw0 realized that\emdash that since the Great Troll is dead and the \expndtw3 Troll army has been put to flight\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 He broke off. All the Elves were waiting.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "I thought maybe I\emdash that is, maybe if you don't need me any more\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi197\li53\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The Elves listened respectfully. "What is it, Mighty \expndtw3 King? Go on."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li43\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "I thought maybe now I could go back to the filling \expndtw0 station and not be king any more." Shadrach glanced \expndtw2 hopefully around at them. "Do you think so? With the \expndtw4 war over and all. With him dead. What do you say?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 For a time, the Elves were silent. They gazed unhap\-\expndtw3 pily down at the ground. None of them said anything. \expndtw-2 At last they began moving away, collecting their banners \expndtw1 and pennants.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Yes, you may go back," an Elf said quietly. "The \expndtw1 war is over. The Trolls have been defeated. You may \expndtw2 return to your filling station, if that is what you want."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 A flood of relief swept over Shadrach. He straightened \expndtw0 up, grinning from ear to ear. "Thanks! That's fine. That's \expndtw3 really fine. That's the best news I've heard in my life."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri34\qc\cf1\expndtw8\i\fs24 Philip K. Dick\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri38\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 He moved away from the Elves, rubbing his hands \expndtw-2 together and blowing on them.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "Thanks an awful lot." He grinned around at the silent Elves. "Well, I guess I'll be running along, then. It's late. \expndtw-3 Late and cold. It's been a hard night. I'll\emdash I'll see you \expndtw0 around."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li206\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 The Elves nodded silently.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "Fine. Well, good night." Shadrach turned and started \expndtw-2 along the path. He stopped for a moment, waving back \expndtw-3 at the Elves. "It was quite a battle, wasn't it? We really licked them." He hurried on along the path. Once again \expndtw-6 he stopped, looking back and waving. "Sure glad I could \expndtw-1 help out. Well, good night!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li19\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 One or two of the Elves waved, but none of them said \expndtw-8 anything.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri19\sb221\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Shadrach Jones walked slowly toward his place. He \expndtw-2 could see it from the rise, the highway that few cars \expndtw-4 traveled, the filling station falling to ruin, the house that \expndtw-5 might not last as long as himself, and not enough money \expndtw0 coming in to repair them or buy a better location.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\fs24 He turned around and went back.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 The Elves were still gathered there in the silence of \expndtw-1 the night. They had not moved away.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 "I was hoping you hadn't gone," Shadrach said, \expndtw-6 relieved.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "And we were hoping you would not leave," said a \expndtw-6 soldier.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Shadrach kicked a stone. It bounced through the tight silence and stopped. The Elves were still watching him.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li29\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 "Leave?" Shadrach asked. "And me King of the \expndtw-3 Elves?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "Then you will remain our king?" an Elf cried.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "It's a hard thing for a man of my age to change. To stop selling gasoline and suddenly be a king. It scared \expndtw1 me for a while. But it doesn't any more."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "You will? You \i will?"\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "Sure," said Shadrach Jones.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 The little circle of Elf torches closed in joyously. In \expndtw-3 their light, he saw a platform like the one that had car\-\expndtw1 ried the old King of the Elves. But this one was much\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1267\tx4939\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE KING OF THE ELVES\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 273\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw8\fs23 larger, big enough to hold a man, and dozens of the\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi-211\li211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 soldiers waited with proud shoulders under the shafts. \expndtw4 A soldier gave him a happy bow. "For you, Sire." \expndtw-1 Shadrach climbed aboard. It was less comfortable than\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 walking, but he knew this was how they wanted to take\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 him to the Kingdom of the Elves.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li14\cf1\expndtw3\fs44 FLYING PAN\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb235\cf1\expndtw-3\i\fs34 Robert F. Young\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li14\ri19\sb1498\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs22 Marianne Summers worked in a frying-pan factory. For \expndtw3 eight hours every day and for five days every week she \expndtw5 stood by a production-line conveyor and every time a \expndtw6 frying pan went by she put a handle on it. And all the \expndtw8 while she stood by one conveyor she rode along on \expndtw5 another\emdash a big conveyor with days and nights over it instead of fluorescent tubes, and months standing along it instead of people. And every time she passed a month \expndtw6 it added something to her or took something away, and \expndtw2 as time went by she became increasingly aware of the \expndtw6 ultimate month\emdash the one standing far down the line, \expndtw7 waiting to put a handle on her soul.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs22 Sometimes Marianne sat down and wondered how she \expndtw6 could possibly have gotten into such a rut, but all the \expndtw1 while she wondered she knew that she was only kidding \expndtw7 herself, that she knew perfectly well why. Ruts were \expndtw4 made for untalented people, and if you were untalented \expndtw6 you ended up in one; moreover if you were untalented \expndtw3 and were too stubborn to go home and admit you were \expndtw6 untalented, you stayed in one.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs22 There was a great deal of difference between dancing \expndtw2 on TV and putting handles on frying pans: the difference \expndtw5 between being graceful and gawky, lucky and unlucky, \expndtw1 or\emdash to get right back to the basic truth again\emdash the differ\-\expndtw4 ence between being talented and untalented. No matter \expndtw6 how hard you practiced or how hard you tried, if your legs were too fat, no one wanted you and you ended up \expndtw4 in a rut or in a frying-pan factory, which was the same \expndtw6 thing, and you went to work every morning and per\-formed the same tasks and you came home every night\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li53\sb101\qc\cf1\expndtw-6 274\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2981\cf1\expndtw4 FLYING PAN\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-6 275\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri43\sb216\sl-216\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 and thought the same thoughts, and all the while you \expndtw5 rode down the big conveyor between the merciless \expndtw-3 months and came closer and closer to the ultimate month \expndtw2 that would put the final touches on you and make you just like everybody else. . . .\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri34\sb5\sl-216\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Mornings were getting up and cooking breakfasts in \expndtw2 her small apartment and taking the bus to work. Eve\-\expndtw-3 nings were going home and cooking lonely suppers and \expndtw-1 afterward TV. Weekends were writing letters and walk\-\expndtw-2 ing in the park. Nothing ever changed and Marianne had \expndtw3 begun to think that nothing ever would. . . .\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri38\sl-216\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 And then one night when she came home, she found \expndtw0 a flying frying pan on her window ledge.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri19\sb226\sl-216\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 It had been a day like all days, replete with frying \expndtw2 pans, superintendents, boredom and tired feet. Around \expndtw1 ten o'clock the maintenance man stopped by and asked \expndtw-2 her to go to the Halloween Dance with him. The Hallow\-\expndtw-3 een Dance was a yearly event sponsored by the company \expndtw-2 and was scheduled for that night. So far, Marianne had \expndtw0 turned down fifteen would-be escorts.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li29\ri24\sb5\sl-216\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 A frying pan went by and she put a handle on it. "No, \expndtw4 I don't think so," she said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sb5\sl-216\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Why?" the maintenance man asked bluntly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri14\sl-216\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 It was a good question, one that Marianne couldn't \expndtw-1 answer honestly because she wasn't being honest with \expndtw0 herself. So she told the same little white lie she had told \expndtw4 all the others: "I\emdash I don't like dances."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri10\sb5\sl-216\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Oh." The maintenance man gave her the same look \expndtw-2 his fifteen predecessors had given her, and moved on. \expndtw-1 Marianne shrugged her shoulders. I don't care \i what \i0 they \expndtw-2 think, she told herself. Another frying pan went by, and \expndtw3 another and another.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri10\sb5\sl-216\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 After a while, noon came, and Marianne and all the \expndtw0 other employees ate frankfurters and sauerkraut in the company cafeteria. The parade of frying pans recom\-menced promptly at 12:30.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\sb5\sl-216\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 During the afternoon she was approached twice more \expndtw3 by would-be escorts. You'd have thought she was the \expndtw2 only girl in the factory. Sometimes she hated her blue \expndtw-2 eyes and round pink face, and sometimes she even hated \expndtw0 her bright yellow hair, which had some of the properties\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1882\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 276\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i Robert F. Young\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri29\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 of a magnet. But hating the way she looked didn't solve \expndtw-4 her problems\emdash it only aggravated them\emdash and by the time \expndtw-1 4:30 came she had a headache and she heartily despised \expndtw0 the whole world.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Diminutive trick-or-treaters were already making the rounds when she got off the bus at the corner. Witches \expndtw0 walked and goblins leered, and pumpkin candles sput\-\expndtw3 tered in the dusk. But Marianne hardly noticed.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Halloween was for children, not for an embittered old \expndtw5 woman of twenty-two who worked in a frying-pan \expndtw-3 factory.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 She walked down the street to the apartment building \expndtw4 and picked up her mail at the desk. There were two letters, one from her mother, one from\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Marianne's heart pounded all the way up in the eleva\-\expndtw-1 tor and all the way down the sixth-floor corridor to her \expndtw0 apartment. But she forced herself to open her mother's \expndtw-3 letter first. It was a typical letter, not essentially different \expndtw3 from the last one. The grape crop had been good, but \expndtw4 what with the trimming and the tying and the disking \expndtw-1 and the horse-hoeing, and paying off the pickers, there \expndtw2 wasn't going to be much left of the check\emdash if and when \expndtw-2 it came; the hens were laying better, but then they always did whenever egg prices dropped; Ed Olmstead was put\-\expndtw3 ting a new addition on his general store (it was high \expndtw-1 time!); Doris Hickett had just given birth to a 7 Ib. baby \expndtw-2 boy; Pa sent his love, and please forget your foolish pride and come home. P.S.\emdash Marianne should see the wonder\-ful remodeling job Howard King was doing on his house. \expndtw3 It was going to be a regular palace when he got done.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 Marianne swallowed the lump in her throat. She \expndtw2 opened the other letter with trembling fingers:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw9\scaps\fs23 dear marianne,\cf0\expndtw0\scaps0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\ri202\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\i\fs23 I said I wasn't going to write you any more, that I'd \expndtw1 already written you too many times asking you to \expndtw-4 come home and marry me and you never gave me an \expndtw0 answer one way or the other. But sometimes a fel\-\expndtw1 low's pride don't amount to much.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li245\ri182\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\i\fs23 I guess you know I'm remodeling the house and I \expndtw3 guess you know the reason why. In case you don't \expndtw4 it's the same reason I bought the house in the first\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri67\qr\tx2976\cf1\expndtw-2\fs21 FLYING PAN\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-7 277\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li168\ri240\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\i\fs26 place, because of you. I only got one picture window and I don't know whether I should put it in the parlor \expndtw1 or in the kitchen. The kitchen would be fine, but all \expndtw5 you can see from there is the barn and you know \expndtw1 how the barn looks, but if I put it in the parlor the \expndtw2 northwest wind would be sure to crack it the first \expndtw-1 winter though you'd get a good view of the road and the willows along the creek. I don't know what to do. \expndtw-2 The hills behind the south meadow are all red and \expndtw0 gold the way you used to like them. The willows look \expndtw-1 like they're on fire. Nights I sit on the steps and pic\-\expndtw-2 ture you coming walking down the road and stopping by the gate and then I get up and walk down the path \expndtw-1 and I say, "I'm glad you've come back, Marianne. I \expndtw0 guess you know I still love you." I guess if anybody ever heard me they'd think I was crazy because the \expndtw-2 road is always empty when I get there, and there's no \expndtw0 one ever standing by the gate.\cf0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li4147\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw9\scaps\fs26 howard\cf0\expndtw0\scaps0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri10\sb442\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 There had been that crisp December night with the sound \expndtw-5 of song and laughter intermingling with the crackling of \expndtw-6 the ice beneath the runners and the chug-chugging of the \expndtw-4 tractor as it pulled the hay-filled sleigh, and the stars so \expndtw-2 bright and close they touched the topmost branches of \expndtw-4 the silhouetted trees, and the snow, pale and clean in the starlight, stretching away over the hills, up and up, into \expndtw-3 the first dark fringe of the forest; and herself, sitting on \expndtw-1 the tractor with Howard instead of in the hay with the \expndtw-2 rest of the party, and the tractor lurching and bumping, \expndtw-4 its headbeams lighting the way over the rutted country \expndtw-8 road\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\sb5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Howard's arm was around her and their frosty breaths blended as they kissed. "I love you, Marianne," Howard said, and she could see the words issuing from his lips in \expndtw-2 little silvery puffs and drifting away into the darkness, \expndtw-7 and suddenly she saw her own words, silver too, hovering \expndtw-4 tenuously in the air before her, and presently she heard \expndtw3 them in wondrous astonishment: "I love you, too, \expndtw2 Howie. I love you, too. . . ."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li34\qc\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 *      *      *\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1882\cf1\expndtw-10\fs22 278\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Robert F. Young\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri24\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 She didn't know how long she'd been sitting there cry\-\expndtw-3 ing before she first became aware of the ticking sound. \expndtw-6 A long time, she guessed, judging by the stiffness of her \expndtw-8 limbs. The sound was coming from her bedroom window \expndtw0 and what it made her think of most was the common \expndtw-4 pins she and the other kids used to tie on strings and rig \expndtw-6 up so they'd keep swinging against the windowpanes of \expndtw-3 lonely old people sitting alone on Halloween.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 She had lit the table lamp when she came in, and its \expndtw-6 beams splashed reassuringly on the living-room rug. But beyond the aura of the light, shadows lay along the walls, \expndtw-5 coalesced in the bedroom doorway. Marianne stood up, \expndtw-3 concentrating on the sound. The more she listened the \expndtw-5 more she doubted that she was being victimized by the \expndtw-3 neighborhood small fry: the ticks came too regularly to \expndtw-4 be ascribed to a pin dangling at the end of a string. First \expndtw-6 there would be a staccato series of them, then silence, then \expndtw-7 another series. Moreover, her bedroom window was six \expndtw-4 stories above the street and nowhere near a fire escape.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 But if the small fry weren't responsible for the sound, \expndtw-6 who was? There was an excellent way to find out. Mari\-\expndtw-5 anne forced her legs into motion, walked slowly to the \expndtw-2 bedroom doorway, switched on the ceiling light and \expndtw-3 entered the room. A few short steps brought her to the window by her bed.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 She peered through the glass. Something gleamed on \expndtw-5 the window ledge but she couldn't make out what it was. \expndtw-2 The ticking noise had ceased and traffic sounds drifted \expndtw-6 up from below. Across tile way, the warm rectangles of \expndtw1 windows made precise patterns in the darkness, and \expndtw-1 down the street a huge sign said in big blue letters: \expndtw-2\scaps spruck's corn pads are the best.\cf0\expndtw0\scaps0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 Some of Marianne's confidence returned. She released \expndtw0 the catch and slowly raised the window. At first she \expndtw-4 didn't recognize the gleaming object as a flying saucer; \expndtw-5 she took it for an upside-down frying pan without a han\-\expndtw-2 dle. And so ingrained was the habit by now that she \expndtw-4 reached for it instinctively, with the unconscious inten\-\expndtw0 tion of putting a handle on it.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs24 "Don't touch my ship!"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 That was when Marianne saw the spaceman. He was \expndtw-4 standing off to one side, his diminutive helmet glimmer-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2971\cf1\expndtw-2\fs22 FLYING PAN\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-9 279\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri43\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 ing in the radiance of \scaps spruck's corn pads. \scaps0 He wore a \expndtw-6 gray, form-fitting space suit replete with ray guns, shoul\-\expndtw-1 der tanks, and boots with turned-up toes, and he was \expndtw0 every bit of five niches tall. He had drawn one of the \expndtw-4 ray guns. (Marianne didn't know for sure they were ray \expndtw0 guns, but judging from the rest of his paraphernalia, \expndtw-5 what else could they be?) and was holding it by the bar\-\expndtw0 rel. It was clear to Marianne that he had been tapping \expndtw-2 on the window with it.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 It was also clear to Marianne that she was going, or \expndtw1 had gone, out of her mind. She started to close the \expndtw-14 window\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "Stop, or I'll burn you!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li19\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 Her hands fell away from the sash. The voice had \expndtw0 seemed real enough, a little on the thin side, perhaps, \expndtw-6 but certainly audible enough. Was it possible? Could this \expndtw-2 tiny creature be something more than a figment?\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 He had changed his gun to his other hand, she noticed, and its minute muzzle pointed directly at her forehead. When she made no further move, he permitted the barrel \expndtw-4 to drop slightly and said, "That's better. Now if you'll behave yourself and do as I say, maybe I can spare your \expndtw-2 life."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "Who are you?" Marianne asked.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 It was as though he had been awaiting the question. \expndtw-5 He stepped dramatically into the full radiance of the light streaming through the window and sheathed his gun. He \expndtw-6 bowed almost imperceptibly, and his helmet flashed like \expndtw-4 the tinsel on a gum wrapper. "Prince Moy Trehano," he \expndtw-5 said majestically, though the majesty was marred by the thinness of his voice, "Emperor of 10,000 suns, Com\-\expndtw-9 mander of the vast space fleet which is at this very moment \expndtw-5 in orbit around this insignificant planet you call 'Earth'!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-10\fs24 "Wh\emdash why?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "Because we're going to bomb you, that's why!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\fs24 "But why do you want to bomb us?"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 "Because you're a menace to galactic civilization! Why \expndtw-3 else?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "Oh," Marianne said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "We're going to blow your cities to smithereens. There'll be so much death and destruction in our wake\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1886\cf1\expndtw-8\fs25 280\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4\i Robert F. Young\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri29\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-8\fs24 that you'll never recover from it. \expndtw43 ...\expndtw-8  Do you have any \expndtw-1 batteries?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 For a moment Marianne thought she had misunder\-\expndtw0 stood. "Batteries?"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li10\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "Flashlight batteries will do." Prince Moy Trehano \expndtw-6 seemed embarrassed, though it was impossible to tell for \expndtw-3 sure because his helmet completely hid his face. There \expndtw-5 was a small horizontal slit where, presumably, his eyes were, but that was the only opening. "My atomic drive's \expndtw-3 been acting up," he went on. "In fact, this was a forced \expndtw-4 landing. Fortunately, however, I know a secret formula \expndtw-2 whereby I can convert the energy in a dry-cell battery \expndtw-1 into a controlled chain reaction. Do you have any?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs24 "I'll see," Marianne said.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "Remember now, no tricks. I'll burn you right through \expndtw0 the walls with my atomic ray gun if you try to call \expndtw-4 anyone!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs24 "I\emdash I think there's a flashlight in my bed-table \expndtw-2 drawer."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 There was. She unscrewed the base, shook out the \expndtw-5 batteries and set them on the window sill. Prince Moy \expndtw-4 Trehano went into action. He opened a little door on the \expndtw0 side of his ship and rolled the batteries through. Then \expndtw-2 he turned to Marianne. "Don't you move an inch from where you are!" he said. "I'll be watching you through the viewports." He stepped inside and closed the door.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 Marianne held her terror at bay and peered at the \expndtw-5 spaceship more closely. They aren't really flying \i saucers \i0 at all, she thought; they're just like frying pans . . . flying \expndtw-3 frying pans. It even had a little bracket that could have \expndtw0 been the place where the handle was supposed to go. \expndtw-5 Not only that, its ventral regions strongly suggested a \expndtw-6 frying-pan cover.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 She shook her head, trying to dear it. First thing you \expndtw-5 knew, everything she saw would look like a frying pan. \expndtw-7 She remembered the viewports Prince Moy Trehano had \expndtw-2 mentioned, and presently she made them out\emdash a series \expndtw-6 of tiny crinkly windows encircling the upper part of the \expndtw-3 saucer. She leaned closer, trying to see into the interior.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "Stand back!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 Marianne straightened up abruptly, so abruptly that \expndtw-3 she nearly lost her kneeling position before the window\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2966\cf1\expndtw-8\fs22 FLYING PAN\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-14 281\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri58\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 and toppled back into the room. Prince Moy Trehano \expndtw-2 had reemerged from his vessel and was standing imperi\-ously in the combined radiance of the bedroom light and \expndtw1\scaps spruck's corn pads.\cf0\expndtw0\scaps0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "The technical secrets of my stellar empire are not for \expndtw-2 the likes of you," he said. "But as a recompense for your assistance in the repairing of my atomic drive I am going \expndtw1 to divulge my space fleet's target areas.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "We do not contemplate the complete destruction of \expndtw-3 humanity. We wish merely to destroy the present civiliza\-\expndtw3 tion, and to accomplish this it is our intention to wipe \expndtw-2 out every city on Earth. Villages will be exempt, as will \expndtw-4 small towns with populations of less than 20,000 humans. \expndtw4 The bombings will begin as soon as I get back to my \expndtw1 fleet\emdash a matter of four or five hours\emdash and if I do not return, they will begin in four or five hours anyway. So \expndtw0 if you value your life, go ho\emdash I mean, leave the city at \expndtw3 once. I, Prince Moy Trehano, have spoken!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Once again the bow, and the iridescing of the tinselly \expndtw0 helmet, and then Prince Moy Trehano stepped into the \expndtw3 spaceship and slammed the door. A whirring sound \expndtw2 ensued, and the vessel began to shake. Colored lights went on in the viewports\emdash a red one here, a blue one \expndtw-2 there, then a green one\emdash creating a Christmas-tree effect.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li34\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Marianne watched, entranced. Suddenly the door flew \expndtw0 open and Prince Moy Trehano's head popped out. "Get \expndtw2 back!" he shouted. "Get back! You don't want to get burned by the jets, do you?" His head disappeared and \expndtw1 the door slammed again.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi197\li38\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Jets? Were flying saucers jet-propelled? Even as she instinctively shrank back into her bedroom, Marianne \expndtw4 pondered the question. Then, as the saucer rose from \expndtw1 the window ledge and into the night, she saw the little \expndtw-2 streams of fire issuing from its base. They were far more \expndtw-1 suggestive of sparks from a Zippo lighter than they were \expndtw2 of jets, but if Prince Moy Trehano had said they were \expndtw0 jets, then jets they were. Marianne was not inclined to \expndtw1 argue the point.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi197\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 When she thought about the incident afterward she \expndtw-1 remembered a lot of points that she could have argued\emdash  \expndtw0 if she'd wanted to. Prince Moy Trehano's knowledge of the English language, for one, and his slip of the tongue\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1877\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 282\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4\i Robert F. Young\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri34\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 when he started to tell her to go home, for another. And \expndtw-1 then there was the matter of his atomic drive. Certainly, Marianne reflected later, if the bombs his fleet was sup\-\expndtw0 posed to have carried were as technically naive as his \expndtw1 atomic drive, the world had never had much to worry \expndtw0 about.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 But at the moment she didn't feel like arguing any \expndtw-1 points. Anyway, she was too busy to argue. Busy pack\-\expndtw-2 ing. Under ordinary circumstances Prince Moy Trehano's \expndtw-1 threatened destruction of the cities of Earth would never \expndtw1 have been reason enough to send her scurrying to the \expndtw-1 sticks. But Lord, when you were so sick of the pinched \expndtw0 little channels of blue that city dwellers called a sky, of \expndtw-1 the disciplined little plots of grass that took the place of \expndtw0 fields, of bored agents who sneered at you just because \expndtw1 you had fat legs; when, deep in your heart, you wanted \expndtw2 an excuse to go home\emdash then it was reason enough.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 More than enough.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 At the terminal she paused long enough to send a \expndtw-3 telegram:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\ri230\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\scaps\fs28 dear howie: put the picture window in the \expndtw-2 kitchen, i don't mind the barn. will be home on \expndtw1 the first train.\cf0\expndtw0\scaps0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li4018\cf1\expndtw-7\scaps\fs25 marianne\cf0\expndtw0\scaps0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri5\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 When the lights of the city faded into the dark line of \expndtw-1 the horizon, Prince Moy Trehano relaxed at the controls. His mission, he reflected, had come off reasonably well.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Of course there had been the inevitable unforeseen \expndtw-2 complication. But he couldn't blame anyone for it besides himself. He should have checked the flashlight batteries \expndtw1 before he swiped them. He knew well enough that half \expndtw0 the stock in Olmstead's general store had been gathering dust for years, that Ed Olmstead would rather die than \expndtw-2 throw away anything that some unwary customer might \expndtw2 buy. But he'd been so busy rigging up his ship that he \expndtw3 just hadn't thought.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 In a way, though, his having to ask Marianne's help in \expndtw2 the repairing of his improvised motor had lent his story \expndtw-2 a conviction it might otherwise have lacked. If he'd said \expndtw5 right out of a clear blue sky that his "fleet" was going\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2976\cf1\expndtw4\fs21 FLYING PAN\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-9 283\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri43\sb221\sl-216\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 to bomb the cities and spare the villages, it wouldn't have \expndtw-1 sounded right. Her giving him the batteries had supplied \expndtw-2 him with a motivation. And his impromptu explanation \expndtw0 about converting their energy into a controlled chain \expndtw-2 reaction had been a perfect cover-up. Marianne, he was \expndtw-1 sure, didn't know any more about atomic drives than he \expndtw-6 did.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri38\sl-216\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Prince Moy Trehano shifted to a more comfortable \expndtw2 position on his matchbox pilot's seat. He took off his \expndtw4 tinfoil helmet and let his beard fall free. He switched \expndtw2 off the Christmas-tree lights beneath the Saran Wrap viewports and looked out at the village-bejeweled \expndtw-3 countryside.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri19\sl-216\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 By morning he'd be home, snug and secure in his min\-\expndtw2 iature mansion in the willows. First, though, he'd hide \expndtw-1 the frying pan in the same rabbit hole where he'd hidden \expndtw1 the handle, so no one would ever find it. Then he could \expndtw0 sit back and take it easy, comforted by the knowledge of \expndtw3 a good deed well done\emdash and by the happy prospect of \expndtw1 his household chores being cut in half.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri10\sl-216\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 A witch went by on a broom. Prince Moy Trehano \expndtw-2 shook his head in disgust. Such an outmoded means of \expndtw-1 locomotion! It was no wonder humans didn't believe in \expndtw0 witches any more. You had to keep up with the times if \expndtw-2 you expected to stay in the race. Why, if he were as old-fashioned and as antiquated as his contemporaries he might have been stuck with a bachelor for the rest of his \expndtw1 life, and a shiftless bachelor\emdash when it came to house\-\expndtw0 work, anyway\emdash at that. Not that Howard King wasn't a fine human being; he was as fine as they came. But you \expndtw-3 never got your dusting and your sweeping done mooning \expndtw-1 on the front steps like a sick calf, talking to yourself and \expndtw2 waiting for your girl to come home from the city.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li38\sl-216\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 When you came right down to it, you \i had \i0 to be mod\-\expndtw-2 ern. Why, Marianne wouldn't even have \i seen \i0 him, to say \expndtw-1 nothing of hearing what he'd had to say, if he'd worn his \expndtw-3 traditional clothing, used his own name and employed his \expndtw-4 normal means of locomotion. Twentieth-century humans \expndtw-2 were just as imaginative as eighteenth-century and nine\-\expndtw0 teenth-century humans: they believed in creatures from \expndtw-3 black lagoons and monsters from 20,000 fathoms and fly\-\expndtw1 ing saucers and beings from outer space\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-216\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 But they didn't believe in brownies. . . .\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\cf1\expndtw3\b\fs43 MY FATHER, THE CAT\cf0\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sb206\cf1\expndtw1\i\fs38 Henry Slesar\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li38\ri14\sb1474\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 My mother was a lovely, delicate woman from the coast \expndtw3 of Brittany, who was miserable sleeping on less than three mattresses, and who, it is said, was once injured \expndtw-2 by a falling leaf in her garden. My grandfather, a descen\-dant of the French nobility whose family had ridden the \expndtw-1 tumbrils of the Revolution, tended her fragile body and spirit with the same loving care given rare, brief-bloom\-\expndtw-2 ing flowers. You may imagine from this his attitude con\-cerning marriage. He lived in terror of the vulgar, heavy-\expndtw-1 handed man who would one day win my mother's heart, and at last, this persistent dread killed him. His concern \expndtw-2 was unnecessary, however, for my mother chose a suitor who was as free of mundane brutality as a husband could \expndtw3 be. Her choice was Dauphin, a remarkable white cat \expndtw2 which strayed onto the estate shortly after his death.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Dauphin was an unusually large Angora, and his abil\-ity to speak in cultured French, English, and Italian was \expndtw0 sufficient to cause my mother to adopt him as a house\-\expndtw4 hold pet. It did not take long for her to realize that \expndtw1 Dauphin deserved a higher status, and he became her \expndtw-1 friend, protector, and confidante. He never spoke of his \expndtw-2 origin, nor where he had acquired the classical education \expndtw-1 which made him such an entertaining companion. After \expndtw3 two years, it was easy for my mother, an unworldly \expndtw-2 woman at best, to forget the dissimilarity in their species. \expndtw8 In fact, she was convinced that Dauphin was an \expndtw-1 enchanted prince, and Dauphin, in consideration of her \expndtw-2 illusions, never dissuaded her. At last, they were married \expndtw3 by an understanding clergyman of the locale, who sol-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li86\sb91\qc\cf1\expndtw-7\fs21 284\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1421\tx4934\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 MY FATHER, THE CAT\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 285\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri53\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 emnly filled in the marriage application with the name of M. Edwarde Dauphin.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 I, Etienne Dauphin, am their son.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 To be candid, I am a handsome youth, not unlike my mother in the delicacy of my features. My father's heri\-\expndtw-6 tage is evident in my large, feline eyes, and in my slight \expndtw-5 body and quick movements. My mother's death, when I \expndtw0 was four, left me in the charge of my father and his \expndtw-5 coterie of loyal servants, and I could not have wished for \expndtw-1 a finer upbringing. It is to my father's patient tutoring \expndtw-2 that I owe whatever graces I now possess. It was my \expndtw-5 father, the cat, whose gentle paws guided me to the trea\-sure houses of literature, art, and music, whose whiskers bristled with pleasure at a goose well cooked, at a meal \expndtw-3 well served, at a wine well chosen. How many happy \expndtw-6 hours we shared! He knew more of life and the humanit\-\expndtw2 ies, my father, the cat, than any human I have met in \expndtw-4 all my twenty-three years.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Until the age of eighteen, my education was his per\-sonal challenge. Then, it was his desire to send me into \expndtw-5 the world outside the gates. He chose for me a university \expndtw-2 in America, for he was deeply fond of what he called \expndtw-5 "that great raw country," where he believed my feline \expndtw-6 qualities might be tempered by the aggressiveness of the \expndtw-2 rough-coated barking dogs I would be sure to meet.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 I must confess to a certain amount of unhappiness in \expndtw-7 my early American years, torn as I was from the comforts \expndtw0 of the estate and the wisdom of my father, the cat. But \expndtw-2 I became adapted, and even upon my graduation from \expndtw-4 the university, sought and held employment in a metro\-\expndtw-5 politan art museum. It was there I met Joanna, the young \expndtw-1 woman I intended to make my bride.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 Joanna was a product of the great American south\-\expndtw-5 west, the daughter of a cattle-raiser. There was a bloom\-ing vitality in her face and her body, a lustiness born of open skies and desert. Her hair was not the gold of antiq\-\expndtw-6 uity; it was new gold, freshly mined from the black rock. \expndtw-5 Her eyes were not like old-world diamonds; their sparkle was that of sunlight on a cascading river. Her figure was \expndtw-1 bold, an open declaration of her sex.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 She was, perhaps, an unusual choice for the son of a \expndtw-1 fairy-like mother and an Angora cat. But from the first\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2074\cf1\expndtw-6\fs21 286\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Henry Slesar\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri53\sb221\sl-216\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 meeting of our eyes, I knew that I would someday bring \expndtw0 Joanna to my father's estate to present her as my fiancee.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri29\sb5\sl-216\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 I approached that occasion with understandable trepi\-\expndtw2 dation. My father had been explicit in his advice before \expndtw5 I departed for America, but on no point had he been \expndtw3 more emphatic than secrecy concerning himself. He \expndtw-2 assured me that revelation of my paternity would bring \expndtw5 ridicule and unhappiness upon me. The advice was \expndtw1 sound, of course, and not even Joanna knew that our journey's end would bring us to the estate of a large, \expndtw0 cultured, and conversing cat. I had deliberately fostered the impression that I was orphaned, believing that the \expndtw1 proper place for revealing the truth was the atmosphere \expndtw-1 of my father's home in France. I was certain that Joanna \expndtw-2 would accept her father-in-law without distress. Indeed, \expndtw7 hadn't nearly a score of human servants remained \expndtw3 devoted to their feline master for almost a generation?\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li38\ri14\sl-216\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 We had agreed to be wed on the first of June, and on \expndtw2 May the fourth, emplaned in New York for Paris. We \expndtw-1 were met at Orly Field by Francois, my father's solemn \expndtw3 manservant, who had been delegated not so much as \expndtw0 escort as he was chaperone, my father having retained \expndtw-2 much of the old world proprieties. It was a long trip by \expndtw4 automobile to our estate in Brittany, and I must admit \expndtw-1 to a brooding silence throughout the drive which frankly \expndtw0 puzzled Joanna.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\sb58\sl-216\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 However, when the great stone fortress that was our \expndtw5 home came within view, my fears and doubts were \expndtw-2 quickly dispelled. Joanna, like so many Americans, was \expndtw-1 thrilled at the aura of venerability and royal custom sur\-\expndtw1 rounding the estate. Francois placed her in charge of \expndtw-1 Madame Jolinet, who clapped her plump old hands with delight at the sight of her fresh blonde beauty, and chat\-\expndtw4 tered and clucked like a mother hen as she led Joanna to her room on the second floor. As for myself, I had \expndtw3 one immediate wish: to see my father, the cat.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li62\sb5\sl-216\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 He greeted me in the library, where he had been anx\-\expndtw-2 iously awaiting our arrival, curled up in his favorite chair by the fireside, a wide-mouthed goblet of cognac by his \expndtw4 side. As I entered the room, he lifted a paw formally, \expndtw-2 but then his reserve was dissolved by the emotion of our \expndtw2 reunion, and he licked my face in unashamed joy.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1411\tx4925\cf1\expndtw3\fs22 MY FATHER, THE CAT\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-12 287\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\ri43\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs26 Francois refreshed his glass, and poured another for me, and we toasted each other's well-being.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs26 "To you, \i mon purr" \i0 I said, using the affectionate \expndtw1 name of my childhood memory.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs26 "To Joanna," my father said. He smacked his lips over the cognac, and wiped his whiskers gravely. "And where \expndtw2 is this paragon?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs26 "With Madame Jolinet. She will be down shortly."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw4\fs26 "And you have told her everything?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs26 I blushed. "No, \i mon purr, \i0 I\i  \i0 have not. I thought it best \expndtw0 to wait until we were home. She is a wonderful woman," \expndtw2 I added impulsively. "She will not be\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs26 "Horrified?" my father said. "What makes you so cer\-\expndtw4 tain, my son?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw9\fs26 "Because she is a woman of great heart," I said \expndtw3 stoutly. "She was educated at a fine college for women \expndtw1 in Eastern America. Her ancestors were rugged people, \expndtw0 given to legend and folklore. She is a warm, human per\-\expndtw-4 son\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs26 "Human," my father sighed, and his tail swished. \expndtw0 "You are expecting too much of your beloved, Etienne. \expndtw2 Even a woman of the finest character may be dismayed \expndtw3 in this situation."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs26 "But my mother\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs26 "Your mother was an exception, a changeling of the \expndtw2 Fairies. You must not look for your mother's soul in \expndtw3 Joanna's eyes." He jumped from his chair, and came \expndtw2 towards me, resting his paw upon my knee. "I am glad \expndtw-1 you have not spoken of me, Etienne. Now you must keep \expndtw2 your silence forever."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw8\fs26 I was shocked. I reached down and touched my \expndtw0 father's silky fur, saddened by the look of his age in his \expndtw-1 gray, gold-flecked eyes, and by the tinge of yellow in his \expndtw1 white coat.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs26 "No, \i mon purr," \i0 I said. "Joanna must know the truth. \expndtw4 Joanna must know how proud I am to be the son of Edwarde Dauphin."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs26 "Then you will lose her."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw4\fs26 "Never! That cannot happen!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs26 My father walked stiffly to the fireplace, staring into \expndtw3 the gray ashes. "Ring for Francois," he said. "Let him \expndtw6 build the fire. I am cold, Etienne."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2064\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 288\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4\i Henry Slesar\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri67\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 I walked to the cord and pulled it. My father turned \expndtw-1 to me and said: "You must wait, my son. At dinner this \expndtw4 evening, perhaps. Do not speak of me until then."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Very well, father."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li19\ri67\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 When I left the library, I encountered Joanna at the head of the stairway, and she spoke to me excitedly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Oh, Etienne! What a \i beautiful \i0 old house. I know I \expndtw2 will love it! May we see the rest?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Of course," I said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "You look troubled. Is something wrong?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "No, no. I was thinking how lovely you are."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 We embraced, and her warm full body against mine \expndtw-2 confirmed my conviction that we should never be parted. \expndtw3 She put her arm in mine, and we strolled through the \expndtw1 great rooms of the house. She was ecstatic at their size \expndtw-1 and elegance, exclaiming over the carpeting, the gnarled \expndtw1 furniture, the ancient silver and pewter, the gallery of \expndtw0 family paintings. When she came upon an early portrait \expndtw3 of my mother, her eyes misted.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "She was lovely," Joanna said. "Like a princess! And \expndtw4 what of your father? Is there no portrait of him?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "No," I said hurriedly. "No portrait." I had spoken \expndtw-1 my first lie to Joanna, for there was a painting, half-\expndtw1 completed, which my mother had begun in the last year \expndtw2 of her life. It was a whispering little watercolor, and Joanna discovered it to my consternation.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "What a magnificent cat!" she said. "Was it a pet?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "It is Dauphin," I said nervously.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 She laughed. "He has your eyes, Etienne."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Joanna, I must tell you something\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "And this ferocious gentleman with the moustaches? \expndtw3 Who is he?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "My grandfather. Joanna, you must listen\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li67\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Francois, who had been following our inspection tour \expndtw-1 at shadow's-length, interrupted. I suspected that his tim\-\expndtw0 ing was no mere coincidence.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li77\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "We will be serving dinner at seven-thirty," he said. \expndtw3 "If the lady would care to dress\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li77\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Of course," Joanna said. "Will you excuse me, \expndtw2 Etienne?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li283\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 I bowed to her, and she was gone.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 At fifteen minutes to the appointed dining time, I was\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1416\tx4930\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 MY FATHER, THE CAT\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 289\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri48\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 ready, and hastened below to talk once more with my \expndtw1 father. He was in the dining room, instructing the ser\-vants as to the placement of the silver and accessories. \expndtw-1 My father was proud of the excellence of his table, and took all his meals in the splendid manner. His apprecia\-\expndtw-3 tion of food and wine was unsurpassed in my experience, \expndtw2 and it had always been the greatest of pleasures for me \expndtw0 to watch him at table, stalking across the damask and \expndtw-2 dipping delicately into the silver dishes prepared for him. \expndtw-1 He pretended to be too busy with his dinner preparations \expndtw2 to engage me in conversation, but I insisted.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I must talk to you," I said. "We must decide together \expndtw3 how to do this."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "It will not be easy," he answered with a twinkle. \expndtw1 "Consider Joanna's view. A cat as large and as old as \expndtw2 myself is cause enough for comment. A cat that speaks \expndtw1 is alarming. A cat that dines at table with the household \expndtw6 is shocking. And a cat whom you must introduce as \expndtw-5 your\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Stop it!" I cried. "Joanna must know the truth. You \expndtw4 must help me reveal it to her."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Then you will not heed my advice?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "In all things but this. Our marriage can never be \expndtw2 happy unless she accepts you for what you are."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "And if there is no marriage?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li34\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 I would not admit to this possibility. Joanna was mine; \expndtw-1 nothing could alter that. The look of pain and bewilder\-\expndtw2 ment in my eyes must have been evident to my father, for he touched my arm gently with his paw and said:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li43\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "I will help you, Etienne. You must give me your \expndtw3 trust."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 "Always!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Then come to dinner with Joanna and explain noth\-\expndtw4 ing. Wait for me to appear."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 I grasped his paw and raised it to my lips. "Thank you, \expndtw0 father!"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 He turned to Francois, and snapped: "You have my instructions?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Yes, sir," the servant replied.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Then all is ready. I shall return to my room now, \expndtw3 Etienne. You may bring your fiancee to dine."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 I hastened up the stairway, and found Joanna ready,\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2078\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 290\expndtw0\tab\expndtw3\i Henry Slesar\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sb211\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 strikingly beautiful in shimmering white satin. Together, we descended the grand staircase and entered the room.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri62\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Her eyes shone at the magnificence of the service set upon the table, at the soldiery array of fine wines, some \expndtw-5 of them already poured into their proper glasses for my \expndtw0 father's enjoyment: \i Haut Medoc, \i0 from \i St. Estephe, \expndtw-4\i0 authentic \i Chablis, Epernay Champagne, \i0 and an Ameri\-\expndtw-3 can import from the Napa Valley of which he was fond. \expndtw-5 I waited expectantly for his appearance as we sipped our \expndtw-4 aperitif, while Joanna chatted about innocuous matters, \expndtw0 with no idea of the tormented state I was in.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li29\ri43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 At eight o'clock, my father had not yet made his \expndtw-5 appearance, and I grew ever more distraught as Francois \expndtw-4 signalled for the serving of the \i bouillon au madere. \i0 Had \expndtw1 he changed his mind? Would I be left to explain my \expndtw2 status without his help? I hadn't realized until this \expndtw-1 moment how difficult a task I had allotted for myself, \expndtw-6 and the fear of losing Joanna was terrible within me. The \expndtw-5 soup was flat and tasteless on my tongue, and the misery \expndtw-1 in my manner was too apparent for Joanna to miss.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 "What is it, Etienne?" she said. "You've been so \expndtw0 morose all day. Can't you tell me what's wrong?"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "No, it's nothing. It's just\emdash " I let the impulse take \expndtw-4 possession of my speech. "Joanna, there's something I \expndtw-1 should tell you. About my mother, and my father\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "Ahem," Francois said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li53\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 He turned to the doorway, and our glances followed \expndtw-9 his.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "Oh, Etienne!" Joanna cried, in a voice ringing with \expndtw-7 delight.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li58\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 It was my father, the cat, watching us with his gray, \expndtw-1 gold-flecked eyes. He approached the dining table, \expndtw-2 regarding Joanna with timidity and caution.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li62\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "It's the cat in the painting!" Joanna said. "You didn't \expndtw1 tell me he was here, Etienne. He's beautiful!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li283\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "Joanna, this is\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li72\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "Dauphin! I would have known him anywhere. Here, \expndtw0 Dauphin! Here, kitty, kitty, kitty!"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li77\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Slowly, my father approached her outstretched hand, \expndtw-1 and allowed her to scratch the thick fur on the back of \expndtw-5 his neck.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li1416\tx4925\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 MY FATHER, THE CAT\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-21 291\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri29\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Aren't you the pretty little pussy! Aren't you the \expndtw0 sweetest little thing!"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Joanna!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 She lifted my father by the haunches, and held him in \expndtw0 her lap, stroking his fur and cooing the silly little words \expndtw-1 that women address to their pets. The sight pained and \expndtw-2 confused me, and I sought to find an opening word that \expndtw1 would allow me to explain, yet hoping all the time that \expndtw0 my father would himself provide the answer.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li206\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Then my father spoke.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Meow," he said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Are you hungry?" Joanna asked solicitously. "Is the little pussy hungry?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "Meow," my father said, and I believed my heart \expndtw1 broke then and there. He leaped from her lap and pad\-\expndtw-2 ded across the room. I watched him through blurred eyes \expndtw-1 as he followed Francois to the corner, where the servant \expndtw5 had placed a shallow bowl of milk. He lapped at it \expndtw2 eagerly, until the last white drop was gone. Then he \expndtw-1 yawned and stretched, and trotted back to the doorway, \expndtw-3 with one fleeting glance in my direction that spoke articu\-\expndtw3 lately of what I must do next.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "What a wonderful animal," Joanna said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Yes," I answered. "He was my mother's favorite."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\cf1\expndtw-14\b\fs41 KID STUFF\cf0\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb245\cf1\expndtw1\i\fs34 Isaac Asimov\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li24\ri53\sb1493\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 The first pang of nausea had passed and Jan Prentiss \expndtw5 said, "Damn it, you're an insect."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 It was a statement of fact, not an insult, and the thing \expndtw4 that sat on Prentiss' desk said, "Of course."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 It was about a foot long, very thin, and in shape a \expndtw-2 farfetched and miniature caricature of a human being. Its \expndtw-1 stalky arms and legs originated in pairs from the upper \expndtw4 portion of its body. The legs were longer and thicker \expndtw3 than the arms. They extended the length of the body, \expndtw4 then bent forward at the knee.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 The creature sat upon those knees and, when it did \expndtw1 so, the stub of its fuzzy abdomen just cleared Prentiss' \expndtw-3 desk.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 There was plenty of time for Prentiss to absorb these \expndtw3 details. The object had no objection to being stared at. \expndtw2 It seemed to welcome it, in fact, as though it were used \expndtw0 to exciting admiration.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi235\li34\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "What are you?" Prentiss did not feel completely \expndtw0 rational. Five minutes ago, he had been seated at his \expndtw-1 typewriter, working leisurely on the story he had prom\-ised Horace W. Browne for last month's issue of \i Far\-\expndtw-4 fetched Fantasy Fiction. \i0 He had been in a perfectly usual \expndtw4 frame of mind. He had felt quite fine; quite sane.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li62\sb5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 And then a block of air immediately to the right of \expndtw0 the typewriter had shimmered, clouded over and con\-\expndtw2 densed into the little horror that dangled its black and \expndtw3 shiny feet over the edge of the desk.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li72\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Prentiss wondered in a detached sort of way that he \expndtw1 bothered talking to it. This was the first time his profes-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li58\sb72\qc\cf1\expndtw-16\fs23 292\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2875\cf1\expndtw-5\fs23 KID STUFF\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 293\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri34\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 sion had so crudely affected his dreams. It \i must \i0 be a \expndtw1 dream, he told himself.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "I'm an Avalonian," said the being. "I'm from Ava-\expndtw-1 lon, in other words." Its tiny face ended in a mandibular \expndtw3 mouth. Two swaying three-inch antennae rose from a \expndtw-2 spot above either eye, while the eyes themselves gleamed \expndtw1 richly in their many-faceted fashion. There was no sign \expndtw-2 of nostrils.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 Naturally not, thought Prentiss wildly. It has to \expndtw-1 breathe through vents in its abdomen. It must be talking \expndtw2 with its abdomen then. Or using telepathy.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Avalon?" he said stupidly. He thought: Avalon? The \expndtw3 land of the fay in King Arthur's time?\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Certainly," said the creature, answering the thought \expndtw4 smoothly. "I'm an elf."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Oh, no!" Prentiss put his hands to his face, took them \expndtw2 away and found the elf still there, its feet thumping \expndtw-1 against the top drawer. Prentiss was not a drinking man, \expndtw0 or a nervous one. In fact, he was considered a very pro\-\expndtw-1 saic sort of person by his neighbors. He had a comfort\-\expndtw1 able paunch, a reasonable but not excessive amount of \expndtw-2 hair on his head, an amiable wife and an active ten-year-\expndtw0 old son. His neighbors were, of course, kept ignorant of the fact that he paid off the mortgage on his house by \expndtw2 writing fantasies of one sort or another.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li19\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Till now, however, this secret vice had never affected \expndtw4 his psyche. To be sure, his wife had shaken her head \expndtw-1 over his addiction many times. It was her standard opin\-\expndtw2 ion that he was wasting, even perverting, his talents.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Who on Earth reads these things?" she would say. \expndtw1 "All that stuff about demons and gnomes and wishing \expndtw-3 rings and elves. All that \i kid \i0 stuff, if you want my frank \expndtw1 opinion."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "You're quite wrong," Prentiss would reply stiffly. "Modern fantasies are very sophisticated and mature \expndtw-2 treatments of folk motifs. Behind the fa\lang1024\'e7\lang1033 ade of glib unre\-\expndtw4 ality there frequently lie trenchant comments on the \expndtw2 world of today. Fantasy in modern style is, above all, \expndtw3 adult fare."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Blanche shrugged. She had heard him speak at conven\-\expndtw3 tions so these comments weren't new to her.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2035\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 294\expndtw0\tab\expndtw3\i Isaac Asimov\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri62\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Besides," he would add, "fantasies pay the mortgage, \expndtw4 don't they?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Maybe so," she would reply, "but it would be nice if \expndtw1 you'd switch to mysteries. At least you'd get quarter-reprint sales out of those and we could even tell the \expndtw2 neighbors what you do for a living."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Prentiss groaned in spirit. Blanche could come in now \expndtw2 at any time and find him talking to himself (it was too \expndtw1 real for a dream; it might be a hallucination). After that \expndtw-2 he \i would \i0 have to write mysteries for a living\emdash or take to \expndtw-3 work.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "You're quite wrong," said the elf. "This is neither a \expndtw3 dream nor a hallucination."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Then why don't you go away?" asked Prentiss.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "I intend to. This is scarcely my idea of a place to live. \expndtw3 And you're coming with me."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "I am \i not. \i0 What the hell do you think you are, telling \expndtw4 me what I'm going to do?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "If you think that's a respectful way to speak to a \expndtw1 representative of an older culture, I can't say much for \expndtw0 your upbringing."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-226\slmult0\tlhyph\tx3341\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "You're not an older culture\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4 " He wanted to add:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li43\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 You're just a figment of my imagination; but he had been \expndtw2 a writer too long to be able to bring himself to commit \expndtw-2 the clich\lang1024\'e9\lang1033 .\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "We insects," said the elf freezingly, "existed half a \expndtw-2 billion years before the first mammal was invented. We \expndtw-1 watched the dinosaurs come in and we watched them go \expndtw0 out. As for you man-things\emdash strictly newcomers."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li53\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 For the first time, Prentiss noted that, from the spot \expndtw0 on the elf's body where its limbs sprouted, a third vesti\-\expndtw-3 gial pair existed as well. It increased the insecticity of the \expndtw1 object and Prentiss' sense of indignation grew.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 He said, "You needn't waste your company on social \expndtw0 inferiors."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li58\sb5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I wouldn't," said the elf, "believe me. But necessity \expndtw4 drives, you know. It's a rather complicated story but when you hear it, you'll \i want \i0 to help."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li62\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Prentiss said uneasily, "Look, I don't have much time. \expndtw0 Blanche\emdash my wife will be in here any time. She'll be \expndtw4 upset."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2861\cf1\fs22 KID STUFF\tab\expndtw-16 295\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\ri62\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "She won't be here," said the elf. "I've set up a block \expndtw5 in her mind."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "What!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri62\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Quite harmless, I assure you. But, after all, we can't \expndtw3 afford to be disturbed, can we?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Prentiss sat back in his chair, dazed and unhappy.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 The elf said, "We elves began our association with you \expndtw1 man-things immediately after the last ice age began. It \expndtw2 had been a miserable time for us, as you can imagine. We couldn't wear animal carcasses or live in holes as \expndtw-1 your uncouth ancestors did. It took incredible stores of \expndtw2 psychic energy to keep warm."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Incredible stores of what?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Psychic energy. You know nothing at all about it. \expndtw3 Your mind is too coarse to grasp the concept. Please \expndtw5 don't interrupt."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The elf continued, "Necessity drove us to experiment \expndtw1 with your people's brains. They were crude, but large. The cells were inefficient, almost worthless, but there were a vast number of them. We could use those brains \expndtw0 as a concentrating device, a type of psychic lens, and \expndtw-3 increase the available energy which our own minds could \expndtw-1 tap. We survived the ice age handily and without having \expndtw3 to retreat to the tropics as in previous such eras.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li24\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Of course, we were spoiled. When warmth returned, \expndtw2 we didn't abandon the man-things. We used them to \expndtw-2 increase our standard of living generally. We could travel \expndtw1 faster, eat better, do more, and we lost our old, simple, \expndtw0 virtuous way of life forever. Then, too, there was milk."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Milk?" said Prentiss. "I don't see the connection."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "A divine liquid. I only tasted it once in my life. But \expndtw-2 elfin classic poetry speaks of it in superlatives. In the old days, men always supplied us plentifully. Why mammals \expndtw2 of all things should be blessed with it and insects not is \expndtw1 a complete mystery. . . . How unfortunate it is that the \expndtw3 men-things got out of hand."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sb5\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "They did?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Two hundred years ago."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Good for us."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Don't be narrow-minded," said the elf stiffly. "It was \expndtw2 a useful association for all parties until you man-things\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2030\cf1\expndtw-12\fs22 296\expndtw0\tab\i Isaac Asimov\cf0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 learned to handle physical energies in quantity. It was \expndtw2 just the sort of gross thing your minds are capable of."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "What was wrong with it?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "It's hard to explain. It was all very well for us to light \expndtw0 up our nightly revels with fireflies brightened by use of \expndtw-2 two manpower of psychic energy. But then you men-\expndtw0 creatures installed electric lights. Our antennal reception \expndtw-1 is good for miles, but then you invented telegraphs, tele\-phones and radios. Our kobolds mined ore with much \expndtw-2 greater efficiency than man-things do, until man-things \expndtw3 invented dynamite. Do you see?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 "No."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Surely you don't expect sensitive and superior crea\-\expndtw0 tures such as the elves to watch a group of hairy mam\-\expndtw5 mals outdo them. It wouldn't be so bad if we could \expndtw0 imitate the electronic development ourselves, but our \expndtw-2 psychic energies were insufficient for the purpose. Well, \expndtw9 we retreated from reality. We sulked, pined and \expndtw0 drooped. Call it an inferiority complex, if you will, but \expndtw-1 from two centuries ago onward, we slowly abandoned \expndtw3 mankind and retreated to such centers as Avalon."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Prentiss thought furiously. "Let's get this straight. You \expndtw1 can handle minds?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Certainly."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "You can make me think you're invisible? Hypnoti\-\expndtw3 cally, I mean?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "A crude term, but yes."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "And when you appeared just now, you did it by lifting \expndtw4 a kind of mental block. Is that it?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li53\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "To answer your thoughts, rather than your words: \expndtw0 You are not sleeping; you are not mad; and I am not \expndtw2 supernatural."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "I was just making sure. I take it, then, you can read my mind."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Of course. It is a rather dirty and unrewarding sort of labor, but I can do it when I must. Your name is \expndtw-2 Prentiss and you write imaginative fiction. You have one larva who is at a place of instruction. I know a great deal \expndtw3 about you."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li278\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Prentiss winced. "And just where is Avalon?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li67\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "You won't find it." The elf clacked his mandibles together two or three times. "Don't speculate on the pos-\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2875\cf1\fs22 KID STUFF\tab\expndtw-9 297\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri43\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 sibility of warning the authorities. You'll find yourself in \expndtw-2 a madhouse. Avalon, in case you think the knowledge \expndtw-5 will help you, is in the middle of the Atlantic and quite \expndtw-4 invisible, you know. After the steamboat was invented, \expndtw-7 you man-things got to moving about so unreasonably that \expndtw-3 we had to cloak the whole island with a psychic shield.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "Of course, incidents \i will \i0 take place. Once a huge, \expndtw0 barbaric vessel hit us dead center and it took all the \expndtw-6 psychic energy of the entire population to give the island the appearance of an iceberg. The \i Titanic, \i0 I\i  \i0 believe, was \expndtw-5 the name printed on the vessel. And nowadays there are planes flying overhead all the time and sometimes there \expndtw-4 are crashes. We picked up cases of canned milk once. \expndtw1 That's when I tasted it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Prentiss said, "Well, then, damn it, why aren't you still \expndtw-2 on Avalon? Why did you leave?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "I was ordered to leave," said the elf angrily. "The \expndtw-4 fools."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 "Oh?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "You know how it is when you're a little different. I'm \expndtw-2 not like the rest of them and the poor tradition-ridden \expndtw-4 fools resented it. They were jealous. That's the best explanation. Jealous!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "How are you different?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "Hand me that light bulb," said the elf. "Oh, just un\-screw it. You don't need a reading lamp in the daytime."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 With a quiver of repulsion, Prentiss did as he was told \expndtw-3 and passed the object into the little hands of the elf. \expndtw-5 Carefully, the elf, with fingers so thin and wiry that they \expndtw-4 looked like tendrils, touched the bottom and side of the \expndtw-5 brass base.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 Feebly, the filament in the bulb reddened.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs24 "Good God," said Prentiss.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs24 "That," said the elf proudly, "is my great talent. I \expndtw-5 told you that we elves couldn't adapt psychic energy to \expndtw-3 electronics. Well, I can! I'm not just an ordinary elf. I'm \expndtw-4 a mutant! A super-elf! I'm the next stage in elfin evolu\-\expndtw-6 tion. This light is due just to the activity of my own mind, \expndtw-2 you know. Now watch when I use yours as a focus."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 As he said that, the bulb's filament grew white hot and \expndtw-6 painful to look at, while a vague and not unpleasant tick\-\expndtw-3 ling sensation entered Prentiss' skull.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2035\cf1\expndtw-13\fs22 298\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Isaac Asimov\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri58\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 The lamp went out and the elf put the bulb on the \expndtw1 desk behind the typewriter.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "I haven't tried," said the elf proudly, "but I suspect \expndtw3 I can fission uranium too."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\tlhyph\tx1450\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "But look here, lighting a bulb takes energy. You can't\line\expndtw2 just hold it\expndtw0\tab "\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I've \i told \i0 you about psychic energy. Great Oberon, \expndtw3 man-thing, try to understand."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Prentiss felt increasingly uneasy; he said cautiously, \expndtw2 "What do you intend doing with this gift of yours?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Go back to Avalon, of course. I \i should \i0 let those fools \expndtw0 go to their doom, but an elf does have a certain patrio\-\expndtw3 tism, even if he is a coleopteron."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "A what?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "We elves are not all of a species, you know. I'm of \expndtw2 beetle descent. See?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 He rose to his feet and, standing on the desk, turned \expndtw-1 his back to Prentiss. What had seemed merely a shining \expndtw-2 black cuticle suddenly split and lifted. From underneath, \expndtw0 two filmy, veined wings fluttered out.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Oh, you can fly," said Prentiss.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "You're very foolish," said the elf contemptuously, \expndtw2 "not to realize I'm too large for flight. But they \i are \expndtw-1\i0 attractive, aren't they? How do you like the iridescence? The lepidoptera have disgusting wings in comparison. \expndtw7 They're gaudy and indelicate. What's more they're \expndtw-1 always sticking out."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "The lepidoptera?" Prentiss felt hopelessly confused.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "The butterfly clans. They're the proud ones. They \expndtw-1 were always letting humans see them so they could be \expndtw4 admired. Very petty minds in a way. And that's why \expndtw0 your legends always give fairies butterfly wings instead \expndtw-2 of beetle wings which are \i much \i0 more diaphanously beau\-\expndtw1 tiful. We'll give the lepidoptera what for when we get \expndtw5 back, you and I."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\tlhyph\tx2011\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Now hold on\expndtw0\tab "\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Just think," said the elf, swaying back and forth in \expndtw-1 what looked like elfin ecstasy, "our nightly revels on the fairy green will be a blaze of sparkling light from curli\-\expndtw2 cues of neon tubing. We can cut loose the swarms of \expndtw-2 wasps we've got hitched to our flying wagons and install \expndtw4 internal-combustion motors instead. We can stop this\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2875\cf1\fs22 KID STUFF\tab\expndtw-11 299\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri53\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 business of curling up on leaves when it's time to sleep \expndtw-3 and build factories to manufacture decent mattresses. I \expndtw-4 tell you, we'll \i live. . . . \i0 And the rest of them will eat dirt \expndtw-1 for having ordered me out."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "But I can't go with you," bleated Prentiss. "I have \expndtw-5 responsibilities. I have a wife and kid. You wouldn't take \expndtw-3 a man away from his\emdash his larva, would you?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "I'm not cruel," said the elf. He turned his eyes full \expndtw-5 on Prentiss. "I have an elfin soul. Still, what choice have \expndtw-7 I? I must have a man-brain for focusing purposes or I will \expndtw-6 accomplish nothing; and not all man-brains are suitable."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "Why not?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "Great Oberon, creature. A man-brain isn't a passive \expndtw-2 thing of wood and stone. It must co-operate in order to \expndtw0 be useful. And it can only co-operate by being fully \expndtw-5 aware of our own elfin ability to manipulate it. I can use \expndtw-6 your brain, for instance, but your wife's would be useless \expndtw-2 to me. It would take her years to understand who and \expndtw1 what I am."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Prentiss said, "This is a damned insult. Are you telling \expndtw-6 me I believe in fairies? I'll have you know I'm a complete \expndtw-3 rationalist."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "Are you? When I first revealed myself to you, you \expndtw-4 had a few feeble thoughts about dreams and hallucina\-\expndtw-5 tions but you talked to me, you accepted me. Your wife \expndtw-3 would have screamed and gone into hysterics."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 Prentiss was silent. He could think of no answer.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "That's the trouble," said the elf despondently. "Prac\-\expndtw-5 tically all you humans have forgotten about us since we \expndtw-6 left you. Your minds have closed; grown useless. To be \expndtw-5 sure, your larvae believe in your legends about the 'little \expndtw-1 folk,' but their brains are undeveloped and useful only \expndtw-7 for simple processes. When they mature, they lose belief. \expndtw-2 Frankly, I don't know what I would do if it weren't for \expndtw-3 you fantasy writers."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "What do you mean, we fantasy writers?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "You are the few remaining adults who believe in the \expndtw-3 insect folk. You, Prentiss, most of all. You've been a \expndtw-2 fantasy writer for twenty years."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "You're mad. I don't believe the things I write."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "You have to. You can't help it. I mean, while you're \expndtw-1 actually writing, you take the subject matter seriously.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2035\cf1\expndtw-13\fs22 300\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Isaac Asimov\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri48\sb211\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 After a while your mind is just naturally cultivated into \expndtw-1 usefulness. . . . But why argue? I \i have \i0 used you. You \expndtw-4 saw the light bulb brighten. So you see you must come \expndtw-1 with me."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri53\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "But I won't." Prentiss set his limbs stubbornly. "Can \expndtw-3 you make me against my will?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 "I could, but I might damage you, and I wouldn't want \expndtw-4 that. Suppose we say this. If you don't agree to come, I \expndtw-5 could focus a current of high-voltage electricity through \expndtw-1 your wife. It would be a revolting thing to have to do, but I understand your own people execute enemies of \expndtw-5 the state in that fashion, so that you would probably find \expndtw-2 the punishment less horrible than I do. I wouldn't want \expndtw0 to seem brutal even to a man-thing."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 Prentiss grew conscious of the perspiration matting the \expndtw-2 short hairs on his temple.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 "Wait," he said, "don't do anything like that. Let's \expndtw1 talk it over."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li29\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 The elf shot out his filmy wings, fluttered them and \expndtw-2 returned them to their case. "Talk, talk, talk. It's tiring. \expndtw-5 Surely you have milk in the house. You're not a very \expndtw-4 thoughtful host or you would have offered me refresh\-\expndtw-1 ment before this."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Prentiss tried to bury the thought that came to him, to \expndtw0 push it as far below the outer skin of his mind as he \expndtw-3 could. He said casually, "I have something better than \expndtw2 milk. Here, I'll get it for you."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "Stay where you are. Call to your wife. She'll bring \expndtw3 it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "But I don't want her to see you. It would frighten \expndtw2 her."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li48\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 The elf said, "You need feel no concern. I'll handle \expndtw1 her so that she won't be the least disturbed."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 Prentiss lifted an arm.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li48\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 The elf said, "Any attack you make on me will be far \expndtw-3 slower than the bolt of electricity that will strike your \expndtw-4 wife."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Prentiss' arm dropped. He stepped to the door of his \expndtw-8 study.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "Blanche!" he called down the stairs.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs24 Blanche was just visible in the living room, sitting\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2875\cf1\expndtw-1\fs22 KID STUFF\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-16 301\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\ri48\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 woodenly in the armchair near the bookcase. She seemed \expndtw2 to be asleep, open-eyed.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Prentiss turned to the elf. "Something's wrong with \expndtw4 her."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "She's just in a state of sedation. She'll hear you. Tell \expndtw5 her what to do."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Blanche!" he called again. "Bring the container of eggnog and a small glass, will you?"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 With no sign of animation other than that of bare \expndtw1 movement, Blanche rose and disappeared from view.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "What is eggnog?" asked the elf.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Prentiss attempted enthusiasm. "It is a compound of \expndtw-2 milk, sugar and eggs beaten to a delightful consistency. \expndtw3 Milk alone is poor stuff compared to it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Blanche entered with the eggnog. Her pretty face was \expndtw-2 expressionless. Her eyes turned toward the elf but light\-\expndtw0 ened with no realization of the significance of the sight.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Here, Jan," she said, and sat down in the old, leath\-\expndtw-2 er-covered chair by the window, hands falling loosely to \expndtw1 her lap.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Prentiss watched her uneasily for a moment. "Are you \expndtw4 going to keep her here?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "She'll be easier to control. . . . Well, aren't you going \expndtw2 to offer me the eggnog?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "Oh, sure. Here!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 He poured the thick white liquid into the cocktail \expndtw-1 glass. He had prepared five milk bottles of it two nights \expndtw-3 before for the boys of the New York Fantasy Association and it had been mixed with a lavish hand, since fantasy \expndtw1 writers notoriously like it so.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The elf's antennae trembled violently.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "A heavenly aroma," he muttered.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 He wrapped the ends of his thin arms about the stem \expndtw-1 of the small glass and lifted it to his mouth. The liquid's \expndtw3 level sank. When half was gone, he put it down and sighed, "Oh, the loss to my people. What a creation! \expndtw-2 What a thing to exist! Our histories tell us that in ancient \expndtw-3 days an occasional lucky sprite managed to take the place \expndtw4 of a man-larva at birth so that he might draw off the \expndtw0 liquid fresh-made. I wonder if even those ever experi\-\expndtw1 enced anything like this."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 Prentiss said with a touch of professional interest,\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2030\cf1\expndtw-7\fs23 302\expndtw0\tab\expndtw3\i Isaac Asimov\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sb211\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "That's the idea behind this business of changelings, is \expndtw2 it?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri62\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Of course. The female man-creature has a great gift. \expndtw0 Why not take advantage of it?" The elf turned his eyes \expndtw2 upon the rise and fall of Blanche's bosom and sighed \expndtw-5 again.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li19\ri67\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Prentiss said (not too eager, now; don't give it away), \expndtw5 "Go ahead. Drink all you want."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri53\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 He, too, watched Blanche, waiting for signs of restor\-\expndtw0 ing animation, waiting for the beginnings of breakdown \expndtw1 in the elf's control.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li19\ri53\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The elf said, "When is your larva returning from its \expndtw3 place of instruction? I need him."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Soon, soon," said Prentiss nervously. He looked at \expndtw1 his wristwatch. Actually, Jan, Junior, would be back, yelling for a slab of cake and milk, in something like \expndtw-1 fifteen minutes.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Fill 'er up," he said urgently. "Fill 'er up."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li34\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The elf sipped gaily. He said, "Once the larva arrives, \expndtw3 you can go."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "Go?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li34\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Only to the library. You'll have to get volumes on electronics. I'll need the details on how to build televi\-sion, telephones, all that. I'll need to have rules on wir\-\expndtw-2 ing, instructions for constructing vacuum tubes. Details, Prentiss, details! We have tremendous tasks ahead of us. \expndtw-3 Oil drilling, gasoline refining, motors, scientific agricul\-\expndtw1 ture. We'll build a new Avalon, you and I. A technical \expndtw-1 one. A scientific fairyland. We will create a new world."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "Great!" said Prentiss. "Here, don't neglect your \expndtw2 drink."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li48\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "You see. You are catching fire with the idea," said \expndtw4 the elf. "And you will be rewarded. You will have a \expndtw1 dozen female man-things to yourself."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li53\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Prentiss looked at Blanche automatically. No signs of \expndtw3 hearing, but who could tell? He said, "I'd have no use \expndtw2 for female man-th\emdash for women, I mean."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li62\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Come now," said the elf censoriously, "be truthful. \expndtw-2 You men-things are well known to our folk as lecherous, \expndtw2 bestial creatures. Mothers frightened their young for \expndtw5 generations by threatening them with men-things. . . .\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2885\cf1\fs21 KID STUFF\tab\expndtw-7 303\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Young, ah!" He lifted the glass of eggnog in the air and \expndtw4 said, "To my own young," and drained it.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Fill 'er up," said Prentiss at once. "Fill 'er up."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li5\ri62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The elf did so. He said, "I'll have lots of children. I'll \expndtw-1 pick out the best of the coleoptresses and breed my line. \expndtw2 I'll continue the mutation. Right now I'm the only one, \expndtw1 but when we have a dozen or fifty, I'll interbreed them \expndtw-2 and develop the race of the super-elf. A race of electro\emdash  \expndtw-4 ulp\emdash electronic marvels and infinite future. \expndtw44 ...\expndtw-4  If I could \expndtw2 only drink more. Nectar! The original nectar!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li19\ri67\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 There was the sudden noise of a door being flung open \expndtw2 and a young voice calling, "Mom! Hey, Mom!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The elf, his glossy eyes a little dimmed, said, "Then \expndtw-1 we'll begin to take over the men-things. A few believe \expndtw-2 already; the rest we will\emdash urp\emdash teach. It will be the old \expndtw4 days, but better; a more efficient elf-hood, a tighter \expndtw2 union."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Jan, Junior's, voice was closer and tinged with impa\-\expndtw4 tience. "Hey, Mom! Ain't you home?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 Prentiss felt his eyes popping with tension. Blanche sat \expndtw0 rigid. The elf's speech was slightly thick, his balance a \expndtw-3 little unsteady. If Prentiss were going to risk it, now, now \expndtw1 was the time.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Sit back," said the elf peremptorily. "You're being \expndtw-2 foolish. I knew there was alcohol in the eggnog from the moment you thought your ridiculous scheme. You men-\expndtw3 things are very shifty. We elves have many proverbs \expndtw-1 about you. Fortunately, alcohol has little effect upon us. \expndtw3 Now if you had tried catnip with just a touch of honey \expndtw-1 in it\expndtw47 ...\expndtw-1  Ah, here is the larva. How are you, little man-\expndtw0 thing?"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li53\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The elf sat there, the goblet of eggnog halfway to his \expndtw-1 mandibles, while Jan, Junior, stood in the doorway. Jan, Junior's, ten-year-old face was moderately smeared with \expndtw0 dirt, his hair was immoderately matted and there was a \expndtw-1 look of the utmost surprise in his gray eyes. His battered schoolbooks swayed from the end of the strap he held in \expndtw0 his hand.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi197\li72\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 He said, "Pop! What's the matter with Mom? And\emdash  \expndtw3 and what's that?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li72\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The elf said to Prentiss, "Hurry to the library. No time \expndtw3 must be lost. You know the books I need." All trace of\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2030\cf1\expndtw-6\fs23 304\expndtw0\tab\expndtw3\i Isaac Asimov\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri53\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 incipient drunkenness had left the creature and Prentiss' \expndtw2 morale broke. The creature had been playing with him.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Prentiss got up to go.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The elf said, "And nothing human; nothing sneaky; no \expndtw0 tricks. Your wife is still a hostage. I can use the larva's \expndtw3 mind to kill her; it's good enough for that. I wouldn't want to do it. I'm a member of the Elfitarian Ethical \expndtw-1 Society and we advocate considerate treatment of mam\-\expndtw2 mals so you may rely on my noble principles \i if \i0 you do \expndtw4 as I say."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 Prentiss felt a strong compulsion to leave flooding him. \expndtw3 He stumbled toward the door.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Jan, Junior, cried, "Pop, it can talk! He says he'll kill \expndtw3 Mom! Hey, don't go away!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Prentiss was already out of the room, when he heard \expndtw5 the elf say, "Don't stare at me, larva. I will not harm \expndtw4 your mother if you do exactly as I say. I am an elf, a \expndtw3 fairy. You know what a fairy is, of course."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 And Prentiss was at the front door when he heard \expndtw-2 Jan, Junior's, treble raised in wild shouting, followed by \expndtw1 scream after scream in Blanche's shuddering soprano.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The strong, though invisible, elastic that was drawing Prentiss out the house snapped and vanished. He fell \expndtw0 backward, righted himself and darted back up the stairs.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Blanche, fairly saturated with quivering life, was \expndtw3 backed into a corner, her arms about a weeping Jan, \expndtw0 Junior.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 On the desk was a collapsed black carapace, covering \expndtw-3 a nasty smear of pulpiness from which colorless liquid \expndtw-1 dripped.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Jan, Junior, was sobbing hysterically, "I hit it. I hit it \expndtw2 with my schoolbooks. It was hurting Mom."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\sb221\sl-216\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 An hour passed and Prentiss felt the world of normal\-ity pouring back into the interstices left behind by the \expndtw1 creature from Avalon. The elf itself was already ash in \expndtw4 the incinerator behind the house and the only remnant \expndtw5 of its existence was the damp stain at the foot of his \expndtw-4 desk.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sb5\sl-216\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Blanche was still sickly pale. They talked in whispers.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-216\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Prentiss said, "How's Jan, Junior?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sb5\sl-216\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "He's watching television."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\qr\tx2875\cf1\fs22 KID STUFF\tab\expndtw-14 305\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Is he all right?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Oh, \i he's \i0 all right, but \i I'll\i0  be having nightmares for weeks."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "I know. So will I unless we can get it out of our \expndtw0 minds. I don't think there'll ever be another of those\emdash  \expndtw2 things here."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Blanche said, "I can't explain how awful it was. I kept \expndtw3 hearing every word he said, even when I was down in \expndtw2 the living room."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "It was telepathy, you see."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "I just couldn't move. Then, after you left, I could \expndtw5 begin to stir a bit. I tried to scream but all I could do \expndtw-1 was moan and whimper. Then Jan, Junior, smashed him \expndtw1 and all at once I was free. I don't understand how it \expndtw3 happened."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Prentiss felt a certain gloomy satisfaction. "I think I \expndtw3 know. I was under his control because I accepted the \expndtw-1 truth of his existence. He held you in check through me. When I left the room, increasing distance made it harder \expndtw-2 to use my mind as a psychic lens and you could begin \expndtw2 moving. By the time I reached the front door, the elf \expndtw3 thought it was time to switch from my mind to Jan, Junior's. That was his mistake."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "In what way?" asked Blanche.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "He assumed that all children believe in fairies, but he was wrong. Here in America today children \i don't \i0 believe in fairies. They never hear of them. They believe in Tom Corbett, in Hopalong Cassidy, in Dick Tracy, in Howdy \expndtw3 Doody, in Superman and a dozen other things, but not \expndtw-1 in fairies.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw8\fs23 "The elf just never realized the sudden cultural \expndtw1 changes brought about by comic books and television, \expndtw8 and when he tried to grab Jan, Junior's, mind, he \expndtw1 couldn't. Before he could recover his psychic balance, \expndtw5 Jan, Junior, was on top of him in a swinging panic \expndtw1 because he thought you were being hurt and it was all \expndtw-3 over.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li53\sb5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "It's like I've always said, Blanche. The ancient folk \expndtw-3 motifs of legend survive only in the modern fantasy mag\-\expndtw0 azine, and modern fantasy is purely adult fare. Do you finally see my point?"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Blanche said humbly, "Yes, dear."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2035\cf1\expndtw-12\fs22 306\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Isaac Asimov\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri14\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 Prentiss put his hands in his pockets and grinned \expndtw-2 slowly. "You know, Blanche, next time I see Walt Rae, \expndtw1 I think I'll just drop a hint that I write the stuff. Time \expndtw-1 the neighbors knew, I think."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri5\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 Jan, Junior, holding an enormous slice of buttered \expndtw-4 bread, wandered into his father's study in search of the \expndtw-2 dimming memory. Pop kept slapping him on the back \expndtw-3 and Mom kept putting bread and cake in his hands and \expndtw-6 he was forgetting why. There had been this big old thing \expndtw1 on the desk that could talk . . .\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 It had all happened so quickly that it got mixed up in \expndtw-5 his mind.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 He shrugged his shoulders and, in the late afternoon \expndtw-3 sunlight, looked at the partly typewritten sheet in his \expndtw-5 father's typewriter, then at the small pile of paper resting \expndtw-1 on the desk.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 He read a while, curled his lip and muttered, "Gee \expndtw-6 whiz. Fairies again. Always kid stuff!" and wandered off.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li29\ri1651\sl-394\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs45 THE LONG NIGHT \expndtw-1 OF WAITING\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb245\cf1\expndtw-1\i\fs34 Andre Norton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li38\ri34\sb1094\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "What\emdash what are we going to do?" Lesley squeezed her hands so tightly together they hurt. She really wanted to \expndtw4 run, as far and as fast as she could.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Rick was not running. He stood there, still holding to \expndtw3 Alex's belt, just as he had grabbed his brother to keep \expndtw0 him from following Matt. Following him where?\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li48\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "We won't do anything," Rick answered slowly.  \expndtw4 "But people'll ask\emdash all kinds of questions. You only \expndtw3 have to look at that\emdash " Lesley pointed with her chin to \expndtw1 what was now before them.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Alex still struggled for freedom. "Want Matt!" he \expndtw-2 yelled at the top of his voice. He wriggled around to beat \expndtw1 at Rick with his fists.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Let me go! Let me go\emdash with Matt!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Rick shook him. "Now listen here, shrimp. Matt's \expndtw-1 gone. You can't get to him now. Use some sense\emdash look \expndtw4 there. Do you see Matt? Well, do you?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 Lesley wondered how Rick could be so calm\emdash  \expndtw2 accepting all of this just as if it happened every day\emdash  \expndtw0 like going to school, or watching a tel-cast, or the regu\-\expndtw3 lar, safe things. How could he just stand there and talk \expndtw-2 to Alex as if he were grown up and Alex was just being pesty as he was sometimes? She watched Rick wonder-\expndtw2 ingly, and tried not to think of what had just happened.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li72\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Matt?" Alex had stopped fighting. His voice sounded as if he were going to start bawling in a minute or two. \expndtw-2 And when Alex cried\emdash ! He would keep on and on, and \expndtw3 they would have questions to answer. If they told the \expndtw2 real truth\emdash Lesley drew a deep breath and shivered.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li283\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 No one, no one in the whole world would ever believe\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li86\sb115\qc\cf1\expndtw-4\f1\fs18 307\cf0\expndtw0\f0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2011\cf1\expndtw-12\fs22 308\expndtw0\tab\expndtw1\i Andre Norton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri38\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 them! Not even if they saw what was right out here in \expndtw-3 this field now. No one would believe\emdash they would say \expndtw-2 that she, Lesley, and Rick, and Alex were all mixed up \expndtw-4 in their minds. And they might even be sent away to a \expndtw1 hospital or something! No, they could never tell the \expndtw-3 truth! But Alex, he would blurt out the whole thing if \expndtw0 anyone asked a question about Matt. What could they \expndtw-1 do about Alex?\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 Her eyes questioned Rick over Alex's head. He was still holding their young brother, but Alex had turned, \expndtw2 was gripping Rick's waist, looking up at him de-\expndtw-5 mandingly, waiting, Lesley knew, for Rick to explain as \expndtw-7 he had successfully most times in Alex's life. And if Rick \expndtw-2 couldn't explain this time?\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Rick hunkered down on the ground, his hands now on \expndtw-4 Alex's shoulders.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li24\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "Listen, shrimp, Mart's gone. Lesley goes, I go, to \expndtw-8 school\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 Alex sniffed. "But the bus comes then, and you get \expndtw-3 on while I watch\emdash then you come home again\emdash " His \expndtw-4 small face cleared. "Then Matt\emdash he'll come back? He's \expndtw0 gone to school? But this is Saturday! You an' Lesley \expndtw-5 don't go on Saturday. How come Matt does? An' where's \expndtw-2 the bus? There's nothin' but that mean old dozer that's \expndtw-6 chewin' up things. An' now all these vines and stuff\emdash and \expndtw-4 the dozer tipped right over an'\emdash " He screwed around a \expndtw-3 little in Rick's grip to stare over his brother's hunched \expndtw-1 shoulder at the disaster area beyond.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "No," Rick was firm. "Matt's not gone to school. He's gone home\emdash to his own place. You remember back at \expndtw-4 Christmas time, Alex, when Peter came with Aunt Fran and Uncle Porter? He came for a visit. Matt came with \expndtw-5 Lizzy for a visit\emdash how he's gone back home\emdash just like \expndtw1 Peter did."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 "But Matt said\emdash he said \i this \i0 was his home!" countered \expndtw0 Alex. "He didn't live in Cleveland like Peter."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li53\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "It was his home once," Rick continued still in that \expndtw-5 grown-up way. "Just like Jimmy Rice used to live down \expndtw3 the street in the red house. When Jimmy's Dad got \expndtw1 moved by his company, Jimmy went dear out to St. \expndtw-1 Louis to live."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "But Matt was sure! He said \i Ms \i0 was his home!" Alex\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li979\tx4949\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE LONG NIGHT OF WAITING\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 309\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 frowned. "He said it over and over, that he had come \expndtw2 home again."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri53\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "At first he did," Rick agreed. "But later, you know \expndtw-1 that Matt was not so sure, was he now? You think about \expndtw4 that, shrimp."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Alex was still frowning. At least he was not screaming \expndtw2 as Lesley feared he would be. Rick, she was suddenly \expndtw6 very proud and a little in awe of Rick. How had he \expndtw0 known how to keep Alex from going into one of his \expndtw-1 tantrums?\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Matt\emdash he did say funny things. An' he was afraid of \expndtw3 cars. Why was he afraid of cars, Rick?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Because where he lives they don't have cars."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Alex's surprise was open. "Then how do they go to \expndtw0 the store? An' to Sunday School, an' school, an' every \expndtw-1 place?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "They have other ways, Alex. Yes, Matt was afraid of \expndtw1 a lot of things, he knew that this was not his home, that \expndtw5 he had to go back."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "But\emdash I want him\emdash he\emdash " Alex began to cry, not with the loud screaming Lesley had feared, but in a way now \expndtw1 which made her hurt a little inside as she watched him \expndtw2 butt his head against Rick's shoulder, making no effort \expndtw3 to smear away the tears as they wet his dirty cheeks.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Sure you want him," Rick answered. "But Matt\emdash he was afraid, he was not very happy here, now was he, shrimp?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "With me, he was. We had a lot of fun, we did!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "But Matt wouldn't go in the house, remember? Remember what happened when the lights went on?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Matt ran an' hid. An' Lizzy, she kept telling him an' \expndtw2 telling him they had to go back. Maybe if Lizzy hadn't \expndtw3 all the time told him that\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Lesley thought about Lizzy. Matt was little\emdash he was \expndtw3 not more than Alex's age\emdash not really, in spite of what \expndtw1 the stone said. But Lizzy had been older and quicker to \expndtw4 understand. It had been Lizzy who had asked most of \expndtw0 the questions and then been sick (truly sick to her stom\-\expndtw1 ach) when Lesley and Rick answered them. Lizzy had \expndtw-1 been sure of what had happened then\emdash just like she was \expndtw10 sure about the other\emdash that the stone must never be\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1997\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 310\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Andre Norton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 moved, nor that place covered over to trap anybody else. \expndtw1 So that nobody would fall through\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Fall through into what? Lesley tried to remember all \expndtw-2 the bits and pieces Lizzy and Matt had told about where \expndtw1 they had been for a hundred and ten years\emdash a \i hundred \expndtw3\i0 and \i ten \i0 just like the stone said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 She and Rick had found the stone when Alex had run \expndtw1 away. They had often had to hunt Alex like that. Ever \expndtw2 since he learned to open the Safe-tee gate he would go off about once a week or so. It was about two months \expndtw3 after they moved here, before all the new houses had \expndtw-1 been built and the big apartments at the end of the street. \expndtw0 This was all more like real country then. Now it was \expndtw-1 different, spoiled\emdash just this one open place left and that \expndtw-2 (unless Lizzy was right in thinking she'd stopped it all) \expndtw0 would not be open long. The men had started to clear it \expndtw-1 off with the bulldozer the day before yesterday. All the \expndtw1 ground on that side was raw and cut up, the trees and \expndtw2 bushes had been smashed and dug out.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 There had been part of an old orchard there, and a \expndtw-2 big old lilac bush. Last spring it had been so pretty. Of \expndtw6 course, the apples were all little and hard, and had \expndtw0 worms in them. But it had been pretty and a swell place \expndtw4 to play. Rick and Jim Bowers had a house up in the \expndtw-2 biggest tree. Their sign said "No girls allowed," but Les\-ley had sneaked up once when they were playing Little \expndtw3 League ball and had seen it all.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li34\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Then there was the stone. That was kind of scarey. \expndtw3 Yet they had kept going to look at it every once in a \expndtw2 while, just to wonder.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Alex had found it first that day he ran away. There \expndtw1 were a lot of bushes hiding it and tall grass. Lesley felt \expndtw-1 her eyes drawn in that direction now. It \i was \i0 still there. \expndtw0 Though you have to mostly guess about that, only one \expndtw-2 teeny bit of it showed through all those leaves and things.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 And when they had found Alex he had been working \expndtw-3 with a piece of stick, scratching at the words carved there \expndtw-1 which were all filled up with moss and dirt. He had been \expndtw4 so busy and excited he had not tried to dodge them as \expndtw-1 he usually did, instead he wanted to know if those were \expndtw1 real words, and then demanded that Rick read them to \expndtw-5 him.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li979\tx4944\cf1\expndtw-6\fs23 THE LONG NIGHT OF WAITING\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 311\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri67\sb202\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Now Lesley's lips silently shaped what was carved there.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri96\sb221\sl-216\slmult0\qc\cf1\expndtw1\i\fs23 A long night of waiting.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri58\sl-216\slmult0\qc\cf1\expndtw1\i\fs23 To the Memory of our dear children,\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri67\sb5\sl-216\slmult0\qc\cf1\expndtw1\i\fs23 Lizzy and Matthew Mendal,\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri19\sb5\sl-216\slmult0\qc\cf1\i\fs23 Who disappeared on this spot\cf0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri82\sb5\sl-216\slmult0\qc\cf1\expndtw-2\i\fs23 June 23, 1861.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri34\sb5\sl-216\slmult0\qc\cf1\expndtw2\i\fs23 May the Good Lord return them\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri38\sb5\sl-216\slmult0\qc\cf1\expndtw-1\i\fs23 to their loving parents and this\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw1\i\fs23 world in His Own reckoned time.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri34\sb5\sl-216\slmult0\qc\cf1\i\fs23 Erected to mark our years of watching,\cf0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri58\sb5\sl-216\slmult0\qc\cf1\expndtw-1\i\fs23 June 23, 1900.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li19\ri34\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 It had sounded so queer. At first Lesley had thought it \expndtw3 was a grave and had been a little frightened. But Rick \expndtw4 had pointed out that the words did not read like those \expndtw-2 on the stones in the cemetery where they went on Memo\-\expndtw3 rial Day with flowers for Grandma and Grandpa Targ. It was different because it never said "dead" but \expndtw2 "disappeared."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Rick had been excited, said it sounded like a mystery. \expndtw0 He had begun to ask around, but none of the neighbors \expndtw-1 knew anything\emdash except this had all once been a farm. \expndtw3 Almost all the houses on the street were built on that \expndtw2 land. They had the oldest house of all. Dad said it had \expndtw3 once been the farm house, only people had changed it and added parts like bathrooms.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Lizzy and Matt\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Rick had gone to the library and asked questions, too. \expndtw-2 Miss Adams, she got interested when Rick kept on want\-\expndtw4 ing to know what this was like a hundred years ago \expndtw-1 (though of course he did not mention the stone, that was their own secret, somehow from the first they knew they \expndtw4 must keep quiet about that). Miss Adams had shown \expndtw2 Rick how they kept the old newspapers on film tapes. \expndtw3 And when he did his big project for social studies, he \expndtw0 had chosen the farm's history, which gave him a good \expndtw2 chance to use those films to look things up.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 That was how he learned all there was to know about \expndtw2 Lizzy and Matt. There had been a lot in the old paper \expndtw10 about them. Lizzy Mendal, Matthew Mendal, aged\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1997\cf1\expndtw-7\fs24 312\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Andre Norton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri29\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 eleven and five\emdash Lesley could almost repeat it word for \expndtw-1 word she had read Rick's copied notes so often. They \expndtw-7 had been walking across this field, carrying lunch to their \expndtw-3 father who was ploughing. He had been standing by a \expndtw-7 fence talking to Doctor Levi Morris who was driving by. They had both looked up to see Lizzy and Matthew com\-\expndtw-8 ing and had waved to them. Lizzy waved back and then\emdash  \expndtw-6 she and Matthew\emdash they were just gone! Right out of the \expndtw-2 middle of an open field they were gone!\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs24 Mr. Mendal and the Doctor, they had been so sur\-\expndtw5 prised they couldn't believe their eyes, but they had\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li14\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 hunted and hunted. And the men from other farms had \expndtw1 come to hunt too. But no one ever saw the children \expndtw-8 again.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Only about a year later, Mrs. Mendal (she had kept \expndtw-5 coming to stand here in the field, always hoping, Lesley \expndtw-6 guessed, they might come back as they had gone) came \expndtw-4 running home all excited to say she heard Matt's voice, \expndtw-1 and he had been calling "Ma! Ma!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 She got Mr. Mendal to go back with her. And he heard \expndtw-3 it, too, when he listened, but it was very faint. Just like \expndtw-6 someone a long way off calling "Ma!" Then it was gone \expndtw-1 and they never heard it again.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 It was all in the papers Rick found, the story of how \expndtw-2 they hunted for the children and later on about Mrs. \expndtw1 Mendal hearing Man. But nobody ever was able to \expndtw-3 explain what had happened.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 So all that was left was the stone and a big mystery. \expndtw-4 Rick started hunting around in the library, even after he finished his report, and found a book with other stories \expndtw-6 about people who disappeared. It was written by a man \expndtw-4 named Charles Fort. Some of it had been hard reading, \expndtw-7 but Rick and Lesley had both found the parts which were \expndtw-5 like what happened to Lizzy and Matt. And in all those other disappearances there had been no answers to what \expndtw-2 had happened, and nobody came back.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Until Lizzy and Matt. But suppose she and Rick and \expndtw-1 Alex told people now, would any believe them? And \expndtw-6 what good would it do, anyway? Unless Lizzy was right and people should know so they would not be caught. \expndtw-1 Suppose someone built a house right over where the \expndtw-5 stone stood, and suppose some day a little boy like Alex,\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li974\tx4939\cf1\fs22 THE LONG NIGHT OF WAITING\tab\expndtw-16 313\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri62\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 or a girl like Lesley, or even a mom or dad, disappeared? \expndtw-2 She and Rick, maybe they ought to talk and keep on \expndtw-1 talking until someone believed them, believed them enough to make sure such a house was never going to \expndtw-2 be built, and this place was made safe.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri58\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "Matt\emdash he kept sayin' he wanted his mom," Alex's \expndtw-2 voice cut through her thoughts. "Rick, where was his \expndtw-1 mom that she lost him that way?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri53\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 Rick, for the first tune, looked helpless. How could \expndtw-3 you make Alex understand?\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Lesley stood up. She still felt quite shaky and a little sick from the left-over part of her fright. But the worst \expndtw1 was past now, she had to be as tough as Rick or he'd \expndtw-1 say that was just like a girl.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "Alex," she was able to say that quite naturally, and her voice did not sound too queer, "Matt, maybe he'll \expndtw-1 find his mom now, he was just looking in the wrong \expndtw-2 place. She's not here any more. You remember last \expndtw-5 Christmas when you went with Mom to see Santy Claus \expndtw-1 at the store and you got lost? You were hunting mom \expndtw-2 and she was hunting you, and at first you were looking \expndtw-5 in the wrong places. But you did find each other. Well, \expndtw-2 Matt's mom will find him all right."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 She thought that Alex wanted to believe her. He had \expndtw-4 not pushed away from Rick entirely, but he looked as if \expndtw-3 he were listening carefully to every word she said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "You're sure?" he asked doubtfully. "Matt\emdash he was scared he'd never find his mom. He said he kept calling \expndtw0 an' calling an' she never came."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "She'll come, moms always do." Lesley tried to make \expndtw-6 that sound true. "And Lizzy will help. Lizzy," Lesley \expndtw-5 hesitated, trying to choose the right words, "Lizzy's very \expndtw-1 good at getting things done."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 She looked beyond to the evidence of Lizzy's getting \expndtw-2 things done and her wonder grew. At first, just after it \expndtw-4 had happened, she had been so shocked and afraid, she \expndtw-2 had not really understood what Lizzy had done before \expndtw-4 she and Matt had gone again. What\emdash what \i had \i0 Lizzy learned during that tune when she had been in the other \expndtw0 place? And how had she learned it? She had never \expndtw-4 answered all their questions as if she was not able to tell\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2002\cf1\expndtw-11\fs22 314\expndtw0\tab\expndtw1\i Andre Norton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri43\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 them what lay on the other side of that door, or whatever \expndtw-4 it was which was between \i here \i0 and \i there.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li10\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Lizzy's work was hard to believe, even when you saw \expndtw-2 it right before your eyes.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 The bulldozer and the other machines which had been \expndtw0 parked there to begin work again Monday morning-\expndtw-2 Well, the bulldozer was lying over on its side, just as if \expndtw-5 it were a toy Alex had picked up and thrown as he did \expndtw-2 sometimes when he got over-tired and cross. And the \expndtw-5 other machines\emdash they were all pushed over, some even broken! Then there were the growing things. Lizzy had \expndtw0 rammed her hands into the pockets of her dress-like \expndtw-6 apron and brought them out with seeds trickling between \expndtw-1 her fingers. And she had just thrown those seeds here \expndtw0 and there, all over the place.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 It took a long time for plants to grow\emdash weeks\emdash Lesley knew. But look\emdash these were growing right while you watched. They had already made a thick mat over every \expndtw-2 piece of the machinery they had reached, like they had \expndtw-5 to cover it from sight quickly. And there were flowers \expndtw-1 opening\emdash and butterflies\emdash Lesley had never seen so \expndtw-5 many butterflies as were gathering about those flowers, \expndtw-3 arriving right out of nowhere.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 "Rick\emdash how\emdash ?" She could not put her wonder into a \expndtw-4 full question, she could only gesture toward what was \expndtw-3 happening there.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Her brother shrugged. It was as if he did not want to \expndtw0 look at what was happening. Instead he spoke to both \expndtw-3 of them sharply.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "Listen, shrimp, Les, it's getting late. Mom and Dad \expndtw-4 will be home soon. We'd better get there before they do. \expndtw-1 Remember, we left all the things Matt and Lizzy used out in the summer house. Dad's going to work on the \expndtw-4 lawn this afternoon. He'll want to get the mower out of \expndtw0 there. If he sees what we left there he'll ask questions \expndtw-4 for sure and we might have to talk. Not that it would do \expndtw-2 any good."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\sb5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Rick was right. Lesley looked around her regretfully \expndtw-5 now. She was not frightened any more\emdash she, well, she \expndtw-6 would like to just stay awhile and watch. But she reached \expndtw-4 for Alex's sticky hand. To her surprise he did not object \expndtw-5 or jerk away, he was still hiccuping a little as he did after\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li970\tx4939\cf1\expndtw3\fs22 THE LONG NIGHT OF WAITING\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-14 315\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri53\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 he cried. She was thankful Rick had been able to manage \expndtw-5 him so well.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 They scraped through their own private hole in the \expndtw-4 fence into the backyard, heading to the summer house which Rick and Dad had fixed up into a rainy day place to play and a storage for the outside tools. The camping \expndtw-2 bags were there, even the plates and cups. Those were \expndtw0 still smeared with jelly and peanut butter. Just think, \expndtw-4 Matt had never tasted jelly and peanut butter before, he \expndtw-3 said. But he had liked it a lot. Lesley had better sneak \expndtw-6 those in and give them a good washing. And the milk\emdash  \expndtw-2 Lizzy could not understand how you got milk from a \expndtw-5 bottle a man brought to your house and not straight from \expndtw0 a cow. She seemed almost afraid to drink it. And she \expndtw-2 had not liked Coke at all\emdash said it tasted funny.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "I wish Matt was here." Alex stood looking down at \expndtw-5 the sleeping bag, his face clouding up again. "Matt was \expndtw-8 fun\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "Sure he was. Here, shrimp, you catch ahold of that \expndtw-4 and help me carry this back. We've got to get it into the \expndtw-2 camper before Dad comes."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "Why?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Oh, dear, was Alex going to have one of his stubborn \expndtw-6 question-everything times? Lesley had put the plates and cups back into the big paper bag in which she had smug\-\expndtw-3 gled the food from the kitchen this morning, and was \expndtw-1 folding up the extra cover from Matt's bed.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "You just come along and I'll tell you, shrimp." She \expndtw-6 heard Rick say. Rick was just \i wonderful \i0 today. Though \expndtw-2 Mom always said that Rick could manage Alex better \expndtw-5 than anyone else in the whole family when he wanted to \expndtw-2 make the effort.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 There, she gave a searching look around as the boys \expndtw-1 left (one of the bags between them) this was cleared. \expndtw-3 They would take the other bag, and she would do the \expndtw-2 dishes. Then Dad could walk right in and never know \expndtw-4 that Lizzy and Matt had been here for two nights and a \expndtw-8 day.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-8\fs24 Two nights and a day\emdash Lizzy had kept herself and Matt \expndtw-6 out of sight yesterday when Lesley and Rick had been at \expndtw-2 school. She would not go near the house, nor let Matt \expndtw-3 later when Alex wanted him to go and see the train Dad\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1997\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 316\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Andre Norton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri72\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 and Rick had set up in the family room. All she had \expndtw0 wanted were newspapers. Lesley had taken those to her \expndtw-1 and some of the magazines Mom had collected for the \expndtw-2 Salvation Army. She must have read a lot, because when \expndtw0 they met her after school, she had a million questions to \expndtw-5 ask.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 It was then that she said she and Matt had to go away, \expndtw1 back to where they had come from, that they could not \expndtw0 stay in this mixed up horrible world which was not the \expndtw2 right one at all! Rick told her about the words on the \expndtw1 stones and how long it had been. First she called him a \expndtw6 liar and said that was not true. So after dark he had \expndtw2 taken a flashlight and went back to show her the stone and the words.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 She had been the one to cry then. But she did not for \expndtw-1 long. She got to asking what was going to happen in the \expndtw-3 field, looking at the machines. When Rick told her, Lizzy \expndtw1 had said quick and hot, no, they mustn't do that, it was \expndtw0 dangerous\emdash a lot of others might go through. And \i they, \expndtw-1\i0 those in the other world, didn't want people who did bad \expndtw0 things to spoil everything.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 When Rick brought her back she was mad, not at him, \expndtw1 but at everything else. She made him walk her down to \expndtw0 the place from which you could see the inter-city thru-\expndtw-2 way, with all the cars going whizz. Rick said he was sure \expndtw0 she was scared. She was shaking, and she held onto his hand so hard it hurt. But she made herself watch. Then, \expndtw1 when they came back, she said Matt and she\emdash they had \expndtw3 to go. And she offered to take Alex, Lesley, and Rick \expndtw-1 with them. She said they couldn't want to go on living \expndtw-7\i here.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li58\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 That was the only time she talked much of what it was \expndtw0 like \i there. \i0 Birds and flowers, no noise or cars rushing about, nor bulldozers tearing the ground up, everything \expndtw3 pretty. It was Lesley who had asked then:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li62\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "If it was all that wonderful, why did you want to \expndtw1 come back?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li67\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Then she was sorry she had asked because Lizzy's face \expndtw1 looked like she was hurting inside when she answered:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li67\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "There was Ma and Pa. Matt, he's little, he misses Ma \expndtw3 bad at times. Those \i others, \i0 they got their own way of life, and it ain't much like ours. So, we've kept a-tryin'\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li974\tx4944\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE LONG NIGHT OF WAITING\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-19 317\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri48\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 to get back. I brought somethin'\emdash just for Ma." She showed them two bags of big silvery leaves pinned \expndtw1 together with long thorns. Inside each were seeds, all \expndtw2 mixed up big and little together.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Things grow \i there" \i0 she nodded toward the field, \expndtw1 "they grow strange-like. Faster than seeds hereabouts. \expndtw3 You put one of these," she ran her finger tip in among \expndtw0 the seeds, shifting them back and forth, "in the ground, \expndtw-2 and you can \i see \i0 it grow. Honest-Injun-cross-my-heart-\expndtw-1 an'-hope-to-die if that ain't so. Ma, she hankers for flow\-\expndtw2 ers, loves 'em truly. So I brought her some. Only, Ma, \expndtw1 she ain't here. Funny thing\emdash\i those \i0 over \i there, \i0 they have \expndtw2 a feelin' about these here flowers and plants. \i They \i0 tell \expndtw3 you right out that as long as \i they have \i0 these growin' \expndtw0 'round \i they\i0 're\i , \i0 safe."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Safe from what?" Rick wanted to know.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "I dunno\emdash safe from somethin' as \i they \i0 think may \expndtw-1 change 'em. See, we ain't the onlyest ones gittin' through \expndtw3 to \i there. \i0 There's others, we've met a couple. Susan\emdash  \expndtw1 she's older 'n me and she dresses funny, like one of the \expndtw0 real old time ladies in a book picture. And there's Jim\emdash  \expndtw3 he spends most of his time off in the woods, don't see \expndtw4 him much. Susan's real nice. She took us to stay with \expndtw-1 her when we got \i there. \i0 But she's married to one of \i them, \i0 so we didn't feel comfortable most of the time. Anyway \expndtw0\i they \i0 had some rules\emdash they asked us right away did we \expndtw2 have anything made of iron. Iron is bad for \i them they \expndtw3\i0 can't hold it, it burns \i them \i0 bad. And \i they \i0 told us right \expndtw-2 out that if we stayed long we'd change. We ate \i their \i0 food \expndtw-1 and drank \i their \i0 drink stuff\emdash that's like cider and it tastes \expndtw0 good. That changes people from here. So after awhile \expndtw-2 anyone who comes through is like \i them. \i0 Susan mostly is \expndtw4 by now, I guess. When you're changed you don't want \expndtw3 to come back."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "But you didn't change," Lesley pointed out. "You came back."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "And how come you didn't change?" Rick wanted to \expndtw-3 know. "You were there long enough\emdash a hundred and ten \expndtw-1 years!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\sb5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "But," Lizzy had beat with her fists on the floor of \expndtw0 the summer house then as if she were pounding a drum. \expndtw1 "It weren't that long, it couldn't be! Me, I counted every\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1997\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 318\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6\i Andre Norton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri58\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 day! It's only been ten of 'em, with us hunting the place \expndtw-2 to come through on every one of 'em, calling for Ma and \expndtw3 Pa to come and get us. It weren't no hundred and ten \expndtw-3 years\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 And she had cried again in such a way as to make \expndtw-1 Lesley's throat ache. A moment later she had been bawl\-\expndtw3 ing right along with Lizzy. For once Rick did not look \expndtw-1 at her as if he were disgusted, but instead as if he were \expndtw2 sorry, for Lizzy, not Lesley, of course.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "It's got to be that time's different in that place," he \expndtw1 said thoughtfully. "A lot different. But, Lizzy, it's true, you know\emdash this is 1971, not 1861. We can prove it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Lizzy wiped her eyes on the hem of her long apron. \expndtw-1 "Yes, I got to believe. 'Cause what you showed me ain't \expndtw3 my world at all. All those cars shootin' along so fast, \expndtw4 lights what go on and off when you press a button on \expndtw-1 the wall\emdash all these houses built over Pa's good farmin' land\emdash what I read today. Yes, I gotta believe it\emdash but it's \expndtw4 hard to do that, right hard!\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li34\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "And Matt 'n' me, we don't belong here no more, not \expndtw2 with all this clatter an' noise an' nasty smelling air like \expndtw-1 we sniffed down there by that big road. I guess we gotta \expndtw2 go back \i there. \i0 Leastwise, we know what's there now."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "How can you get back?" Rick wanted to know.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 For the first time Lizzy showed a watery smile. "I ain't \expndtw-1 no dunce, Rick. \i They \i0 got rules, like I said. You carry \expndtw0 something outta that place and hold on to it, an' it pulls \expndtw1 you back, lets you in again. I brought them there seeds \expndtw3 for Ma. But I thought maybe Matt an' me\emdash we might \expndtw0 want to go visitin' \i there. \i0 Susan's been powerful good to \expndtw4 us. Well, anyway, I got these too."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 She had burrowed deeper in her pocket, under the \expndtw0 packets of seeds and brought out two chains of woven grass, tightly braided. Fastened to each was a small \expndtw-1 arrowhead, a very tiny one, no bigger than Lesley's little \expndtw-4 fingernail.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li278\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 Rick held out his hand. "Let's see."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 But Lizzy kept them out of his reach.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li72\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Them's no Injun arrowheads, Rick. Them's what \i they \expndtw-3\i0 use for \i their \i0 own doin's. Susan, she calls them 'elf-shots.' \expndtw3 Anyway, these here can take us back if we wear 'em. And we will tomorrow, that's when we'll go."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li979\tx4954\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE LONG NIGHT OF WAITING\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 319\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri43\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 They had tried to find out more about \i there, \i0 but Lizzy \expndtw-3 would not answer most of their questions. Lesley thought \expndtw-1 she could not for some reason. But she remained firm in \expndtw0 her decision that she and Matt would be better off \i there \expndtw3\i0 than \i here. \i0 Then she had seemed sorry for Lesley and \expndtw-1 Rick and Alex that they had to stay in such a world, and made the suggestion that they link hands and go through together.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Rick shook his head. "Sorry\emdash no. Mom and Dad\emdash  \expndtw2 well, we belong here."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Lizzy nodded. "Thought you would say that. But\emdash it's \expndtw-2 so ugly now, I can't see as how you want to." She cupped \expndtw0 the tiny arrowheads in her hand, held them close. "Over \expndtw2\i there \i0 it's so pretty. What are you goin' to do here when \expndtw4 all the ground is covered up with houses and the air's \expndtw-2 full of bad smells, an' those cars go rush-rush all day and \expndtw-1 night too? Looky here\emdash " She reached for one of the \expndtw5 magazines. "I'm the best reader in the school house. Miss Jane, she has me up to read out loud when the \expndtw-1 school board comes visitin'." She did not say that boast\-\expndtw4 fully, but as if it were a truth everyone would know. \expndtw0 "An' I've been readin' pieces in here. They've said a lot \expndtw-2 about how bad things are gittin' for you all\emdash bad air, bad \expndtw1 water\emdash too many people\emdash everything like that. Seems \expndtw5 like there's no end but bad here. Ain't that so now?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "We've been studying about it in school," Lesley \expndtw3 agreed, "Rick and me, we're on the pick-up can drive next week. Sure we know."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Well, this ain't happening over \i there, \i0 you can bet \expndtw4 you! \i They \i0 won't let it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "How do they stop it?" Rick wanted to know.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 But once more Lizzy did not answer. She just shook \expndtw-1 her head and said \i they \i0 had their ways. And then she had \expndtw0 gone on:\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Me an' Matt, we have to go back. We don't belong \expndtw-1 here now, and back \i there \i0 we do, sorta. At least it's more \expndtw0 like what we're used to. We have to go at the same hour as before\emdash noon time\emdash "\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "How do you know?" Rick asked.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li62\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "There's rules. We were caught at noon then, we go at noon now. Sure you don't want to come with us?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw9\fs23 "Only as far as the field," Rick had answered for\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1992\cf1\expndtw-6\fs23 320\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Andre Norton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri72\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 them. "It's Saturday, we can work it easy. Mom has a \expndtw1 hair appointment in the morning, Dad is going to drive her 'cause he's seeing Mr. Chambers, and they'll do the \expndtw3 shopping before they come home. We're supposed to \expndtw-3 have a picnic in the field, like we always do. Being Satur\-\expndtw4 day the men won't be working there either."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "If you have to go back at noon," Lesley was trying \expndtw3 to work something out, "how come you didn't get here \expndtw2 at noon? It must have been close to five when we saw \expndtw-2 you. The school bus had let us off at the corner and Alex \expndtw2 had come to meet us\emdash then we saw you\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "We hid out," Lizzy had said then. "Took a chance \expndtw2 on you 'cause you were like us\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Lesley thought she would never forget that first meet\-\expndtw0 ing, seeing the fair haired girl a little taller than she, her \expndtw2 hair in two long braids, but such a queer dress on\emdash like \expndtw-1 a "granny" one, yet different, and over it a big coarse-\expndtw-2 looking checked apron. Beside her Matt, in a check shirt \expndtw-1 and funny looking pants, both of them barefooted. They had looked so unhappy and lost. Alex had broken away \expndtw0 from Lesley and Rick and had run right over to them to \expndtw2 say "Hi" in the friendly way he always did.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Lizzy had been turning her head from side to side as \expndtw2 if hunting for something which should be right there \expndtw-1 before her. And when they had come up she had spoken \expndtw-2 almost as if she were angry (but Lesley guessed she was \expndtw-1 really frightened) asking them where the Mendal house \expndtw-7 was.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 If it had not been for the stone and Rick doing all that \expndtw-2 hunting down of the story behind it, they would not have known what she meant. But Rick had caught on quickly. He had said that they lived in the old Mendal house now, \expndtw1 and they had brought Lizzy and Man along with them. \expndtw2 But before they got there they had guessed who Lizzy and Matt were, impossible as it seemed.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li67\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Now they were gone again. But Lizzy, what had she \expndtw-1 done just after she had looped those grass strings around \expndtw0 her neck and Matt's and taken his hand? First she had thrown out all those seeds on the ground. And then she had pointed her finger at the bulldozer, and the other \expndtw-1 machines which were tearing up the rest of the farm she \expndtw0 had known.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li974\tx4934\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE LONG NIGHT OF WAITING\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-22 321\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\ri34\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 Lesley, remembering, blinked and shivered. She had expected Lizzy and Matt to disappear, somehow she had never doubted that they would. But she had not foreseen \expndtw-2 that the bulldozer would flop over at Lizzy's pointing, \expndtw-5 the other things fly around as if they were being thrown, \expndtw-4 some of them breaking apart. Then the seeds sprouting, \expndtw-3 vines and grass, and flowers, and small trees shooting \expndtw-5 up\emdash just like the time on TV when they speeded up the \expndtw-4 camera somehow so you actually saw a flower opening \expndtw-1 up. What had Lizzy learned \i there \i0 that she was able to \expndtw0 do all that?\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 Still trying to remember it all, Lesley wiped the dishes. \expndtw-3 Rick and Alex came in.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "Everything's put away," Rick reported. "And Alex, \expndtw-1 he understands about not talking about Matt."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 "I sure hope so, Rick. But\emdash how did Lizzy do that\emdash  make the machines move by just pointing at them? And \expndtw-3 how can plants grow so quickly?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "How do I know?" he demanded impatiently. "I didn't \expndtw-4 see any more than you did. We've only one thing to \expndtw-1 remember, we keep our mouths shut tight. And we've \expndtw-6 got to be just as surprised as anyone else when somebody \expndtw-3 sees what happened there\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "Maybe they won't see it\emdash maybe not until the men \expndtw-5 come on Monday," she said hopefully. Monday was a \expndtw-6 school day, and the bus would take them early. Then she remembered.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "Rick, Alex won't be going to school with us. He'll be \expndtw-4 here with Mom. What if somebody says something and \expndtw-1 he talks?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-8\fs24 Rick was frowning. "Yeah, I see what you mean. So\emdash  \expndtw-4 we'll have to discover it ourselves\emdash tomorrow morning. \expndtw-2 If we're here when people get all excited we can keep \expndtw-6 Alex quiet. One of us will have to stay with him all the \expndtw-1 time."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 But in the end Alex made his own plans. The light was \expndtw-3 only grey in Lesley's window when she awoke to find \expndtw-4 Rick shaking her shoulder.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "What\emdash what's the matter?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "Keep it low!" He ordered almost fiercely. "Listen, \expndtw-5 Alex's gone\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li283\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "Gone where?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2002\cf1\expndtw-7\fs23 322\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-3\i Andre Norton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri58\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Where do you think? Get some clothes on and come \expndtw2 on!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Gone to \i there\i0 ?\i  \i0 Lesley was cold with fear as she pulled \expndtw5 on jeans and a sweat shirt, thrust her feet into shoes. \expndtw-2 But how could Alex\emdash ? Just as Matt and Lizzy had gone \expndtw-1 the first time. They should not have been afraid of being \expndtw3 disbelieved, they should have told Dad and Mom all \expndtw-1 about it. Now maybe Alex would be gone for a hundred \expndtw0 years. No\emdash not Alex!\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 She scrambled down stairs. Rick stood at the back \expndtw-2 door waving her on. Together they raced across the back\-\expndtw2 yard, struggled through the fence gap and\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The raw scars left by the bulldozer were gone. Rich \expndtw5 foliage rustled in the early morning breeze. And the \expndtw1 birds\emdash ! Lesley had never seen so many different kinds \expndtw0 of birds in her whole life. They seemed so tame, too, \expndtw-3 swinging on branches, hopping along the ground, pecking \expndtw0 a fruit. Not the sour old apples but golden fruit. It hung \expndtw4 from bushes, squashed on the ground from its own \expndtw-3 ripeness.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs23 And there were flowers\emdash and\emdash\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Alex!" Rick almost shouted.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li48\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 There he was. Not gone, sucked into \i there \i0 where they \expndtw2 could never find him again. No he was sitting under a \expndtw-3 bush where white flowers bloomed. His face was smeared \expndtw2 with juice as he ate one of the fruit. And he was patting \expndtw-1 a bunny! A real live bunny was in his lap. Now and then \expndtw4 he held the fruit for the bunny to take a bite too. His \expndtw-2 face, under the smear of juice, was one big smile. Alex's \expndtw2 happy face which he had not worn since Matt left.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "It's real good," he told them.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Scrambling to his feet he would have made for the \expndtw-1 fruit bush but Lesley swooped to catch him in a big hug.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li278\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "You're safe, Alex!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Silly!" He squirmed in her hold. "Silly Les. This is a \expndtw0 good place now. See, the bunny came 'cause he knows \expndtw-1 that. An' all the birds. This is a \i good \i0 place. Here\emdash " he \expndtw2 struggled out of her arms, went to the bush and pulled \expndtw3 off two of the fruit. "You eat\emdash you'll like them."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li72\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "He shouldn't be eating those. How do we know it's \expndtw5 good for him?" Rick pushed by to take the fruit from \expndtw1 his brother.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li965\tx4930\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE LONG NIGHT OF WAITING\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-17 323\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li202\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Alex readily gave him one, thrust the other at Lesley.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "Eat it! It's better'n anything!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 As if she had to obey him, Lesley raised the smooth \expndtw-6 yellow fruit to her mouth. It smelled\emdash it smelled good\emdash  \expndtw-2 like everything she liked. She bit into it.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li5\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 And tine taste\emdash it did not have the sweetness of an orange, nor was it like an apple or a plum. It wasn't like \expndtw0 anything she had eaten before. But Alex was right, it \expndtw-1 was good. And she saw that Rick was eating, too.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li10\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 When he had finished her elder brother turned to the \expndtw-1 bush and picked one, two, three, four\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-7\fs24 "You \i are \i0 hungry," Lesley commented. She herself had \expndtw-4 taken a second. She broke it in two, dropped half to the \expndtw1 ground for two birds. Their being there, right by her \expndtw-2 feet, did not seem in the least strange. Of course one \expndtw1 shared. It did not matter if life wore feathers, fur, or \expndtw-2 plain skin, one shared.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "For Mom and Dad," Rick said. Then he looked \expndtw-4 around.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 They could not see the whole of the field, the growth \expndtw-6 was too thick. And it was reaching out to the boundaries. \expndtw-5 Even as Lesley looked up a vine fell like a hand on their \expndtw-3 own fence, caught fast, and she was sure that was only \expndtw-5 the beginning.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "I was thinking Les," Rick said slowly. "Do you \expndtw-4 remember what Lizzy said about the fruit from \i there \expndtw-2\i0 changing people. Do you feel any different?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "Why no." She held out her finger. A bird fluttered \expndtw-1 up to perch there, watching her with shining beads of \expndtw0 eyes. She laughed. "No, I don't feel any different."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Rick looked puzzled. "I never saw a bird that tame \expndtw-1 before. Well, I wonder\emdash Come on, let's take these to \expndtw0 Mom and Dad."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 They started for the fence where two green runners \expndtw-2 now clung. Lesley looked at the house, down the street \expndtw-6 to where the apartment made a monstrous outline against \expndtw-4 the morning sky.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-7\fs24 "Rick, why do people want to live in such ugly places. \expndtw-3 And it smells bad\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li58\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 He nodded. "But all that's going to change. You know \expndtw1 it, don't you?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 She gave a sigh of relief. Of course she knew it. The\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx2002\cf1\expndtw-12\fs22 324\expndtw0\tab\expndtw1\i Andre Norton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri14\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs26 change was beginning and it would go on and on until \expndtw3\i here \i0 was like \i there \i0 and the rule of iron was broken for \expndtw1 all time.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs26 The rule of iron? Lesley shook her head as if to shake \expndtw-1 away a puzzling thought. But, of course, she must have always known this. Why did she have one small memory \expndtw0 that this was strange? The rule of iron was gone, the long \expndtw1 night of waiting over now.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li14\sl-403\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-35\b\f2\fs45 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND \expndtw-4 DARKNESS\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb202\cf1\i\fs38 Poul Anderson\cf0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li24\ri5\sb1085\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 The last glow of the last sunset would linger almost until \expndtw-1 midwinter. But there would be no more day, and the northlands rejoiced. Blossoms opened, flamboyance on \expndtw-2 firethorn trees, steelflowers rising blue from the brok and \expndtw-3 rainplant that cloaked all hills, shy whiteness of kiss-me-\expndtw3 never down in the dales. Flitteries darted among them \expndtw-1 on iridescent wings; a crownbuck shook his horns and bugled through warmth and flower odors. Between hori\-zons the sky deepened from purple to sable. Both moons were aloft, nearly full, shining frosty on leaves and mol\-\expndtw1 ten on waters. The shadows they made were blurred by \expndtw0 an aurora, a great blowing curtain of light across half \expndtw3 heaven. Behind it the earliest stars had come out.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 A boy and a girl sat on Wolund's Barrow just under \expndtw1 the dolmen it upbore. Their hair, which streamed half\-\expndtw-2 way down their backs, showed startlingly forth, bleached \expndtw-1 as it was by summer. Their bodies, still dark from that \expndtw1 season, merged with earth and bush and rock; for they \expndtw0 wore only garlands. He played on a bone flute and she \expndtw4 sang. They had lately become lovers. Their age was \expndtw-1 about sixteen, but they did not know this, considering \expndtw-2 themselves Outlings and thus indifferent to time, remem\-\expndtw3 bering little or nothing of how they had once dwelt in \expndtw2 the lands of men.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 His notes piped cold around her voice:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\ri3091\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Cast a spell, \expndtw-1 weave it well \expndtw3 of dust and dew \expndtw2 and night and you."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li62\sb96\qc\cf1\expndtw-9\fs21 325\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1968\cf1\expndtw-13\fs22 326\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri53\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 A brook by the grave mound, carrying moonlight down to a hill-hidden river, answered with its rapids. A flock \expndtw2 of hellbats passed black beneath the aurora.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 A shape came bounding over Cloudmoor. It had two \expndtw3 arms and two legs, but the legs were long and claw-\expndtw2 footed and feathers covered it to the end of a tail and \expndtw-2 broad wings. The face was half-human, dominated by its \expndtw2 eyes. Had Ayoch been able to stand wholly erect, he \expndtw3 would have reached to the boy's shoulder.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 The girl rose. "He carries a burden," she said. Her \expndtw-2 vision was not meant for twilight like that of a northland \expndtw-1 creature born, but she had learned how to use every sign \expndtw2 her senses gave her. Besides the fact that ordinarily a pook would fly, there was a heaviness to his haste.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "And he comes from the south." Excitement jumped \expndtw0 in the boy, sudden as a green flame that went across the constellation Lyrth. He sped down the mound. "Ohoi, \expndtw3 Ayoch!" he called. "Me here, Mistherd!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw10\fs23 "And Shadow-of-a-Dream," the girl laughed, \expndtw-6 following.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The pook halted. He breathed louder than the sough\-\expndtw-1 ing in the growth around him. A smell of bruised yerba \expndtw2 lifted where he stood.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Well met in winterbirth," he whistled. "You can help \expndtw3 me bring this to Carheddin."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 He held out what he bore. His eyes were yellow lan\-\expndtw3 terns above. It moved and whimpered.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Why, a child," Mistherd said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Even as you were, my son, even as you were. Ho, \expndtw1 ho, what a snatch!" Ayoch boasted. "They were a score \expndtw-3 in yon camp by Fallowwood, armed, and besides watcher \expndtw1 engines they had big ugly dogs aprowl while they slept. \expndtw3 I came from above, however, having spied on them till I knew that a handful of dazedust\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "The poor thing." Shadow-of-a-Dream took the boy \expndtw-1 and held him to her small breasts. "So full of sleep yet, aren't you, littleboo?" Blindly, he sought a nipple. She \expndtw0 smiled through the veil of her hair. "No, I am still too \expndtw2 young, and you already too old. But come, when you \expndtw1 wake in Carheddin under the mountain you shall feast."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Yo-ah," said Ayoch very softly. "She is abroad and \expndtw6 has heard and seen. She comes." He crouched down,\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li677\cf1\expndtw2\fs22 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS      327\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\ri62\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 wings folded. After a moment Mistherd knelt, and then Shadow-of-a-Dream, though she did not let go the child.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 The Queen's tall form blocked off the moons. For a while she regarded the three and their booty. Hill and \expndtw3 moor sounds withdrew from their awareness until it \expndtw2 seemed they could hear the northlights hiss.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 At last Ayoch whispered, "Have I done well, \expndtw1 Starmother?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "If you stole a babe from a camp full of engines," said \expndtw1 the beautiful voice, "then they were folk out of the far \expndtw3 south who may not endure it as meekly as yeomen."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "But what can they do, Snowmaker?" the pook asked. \expndtw4 "How can they track us?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Mistherd lifted his head and spoke in pride. "Also, now they too have felt the awe of us."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "And he is a cuddly dear," Shadow-of-a-Dream said. \expndtw4 "And we need more like him, do we not, Lady Sky?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "It had to happen in some twilight," agreed she who \expndtw4 stood above. "Take him onward and care for him. By this sign," which she made, "is he claimed for the \expndtw0 Dwellers."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 Their joy was freed. Ayoch cartwheeled over the \expndtw3 ground till he reached a shiverleaf. There he swarmed \expndtw0 up the trunk and out on a limb, perched half hidden by \expndtw-2 unrestful pale foliage, and crowed. Boy and girl bore the \expndtw2 child toward Carheddin at an easy distance-devouring lope which let him pipe and her sing:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sb226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Wahaii, wahaii!\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li250\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Wayala, laii!\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Wing on the Wind\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 high over heaven,\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 shrilly shrieking,\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 rush with the rainspears,\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 tumble through tumult,\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 drift to the moonhoar trees and the dream-heavy\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 shadows beneath them, \expndtw9 and rock in, be one with the clinking wavelets of\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li466\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 lakes where the starbeams drown."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 As she entered, Barbro Cullen felt, through all grief \expndtw3 and fury, stabbed by dismay. The room was unkempt.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\tx1968\cf1\expndtw-13\fs22 328\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\ri48\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Journals, tapes, reels, codices, file boxes, bescribbled \expndtw4 papers were piled on every table. Dust filmed most \expndtw-1 shelves and corners. Against one wall stood a laboratory setup, microscope and analytical equipment. She recog\-\expndtw-3 nized it as compact and efficient, but it was not what you \expndtw2 would expect in an office, and it gave the air a faint \expndtw1 chemical reek. The rug was threadbare, the furniture \expndtw-4 shabby.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 This was her final chance?\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li24\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Then Eric Sherrinford approached. "Good day, Mrs. \expndtw-1 Cullen." he said. His tone was crisp, his handclasp firm. \expndtw0 His faded gripsuit didn't bother her. She wasn't inclined \expndtw-2 to fuss about her own appearance except on special occa\-\expndtw2 sions. (And would she ever again have one, unless she \expndtw-3 got back Jimmy?) What she observed was a cat's personal \expndtw-2 neatness.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li34\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 A smile radiated in crow's feet from his eyes. "Forgive \expndtw0 my bachelor housekeeping. On Beowulf we have\emdash we had, at any rate\emdash machines for that, so I never acquired \expndtw-2 the habit myself, and I don't want a hireling disarranging \expndtw-1 my tools. More convenient to work out of my apartment \expndtw4 than keep a separate office. Won't you be seated?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "No, thanks. I couldn't," she mumbled.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "I understand. But if you'll excuse me, I function best \expndtw3 in a relaxed position."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 He jackknifed into a lounger. One long shank crossed \expndtw2 the other knee. He drew forth a pipe and stuffed it from \expndtw0 a pouch. Barbro wondered why he took tobacco in so \expndtw-2 ancient a way. Wasn't Beowulf supposed to have the up-\expndtw0 to-date equipment that they still couldn't afford to build \expndtw-2 on Roland? Well, of course old customs might survive \expndtw-3 anyhow. They generally did in colonies, she remembered \expndtw-1 reading. People had moved starward in the hope of pre\-serving such outmoded things as their mother tongues or \expndtw0 constitutional government or rational-technological civilization. . . .\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Sherrinford pulled her up from the confusion of her weariness: "You must give me the details of your case, \expndtw-2 Mrs. Cullen. You've simply told me that your son was kidnapped and your local constabulary did nothing. Oth\-\expndtw-3 erwise I know just a few obvious facts, such as your being \expndtw3 widowed rather than divorced; and you're the daughter\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li672\cf1\expndtw2\fs22 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS      329\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri58\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 of outwayers in Olga Ivanoff Land who, nevertheless, \expndtw-3 kept in close telecommunication with Christmas Landing; \expndtw1 and you're trained in one of the biological professions; \expndtw2 and you had several years' hiatus in field work until recently you started again."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 She gaped at the high-cheeked, beak-nosed, black-\expndtw2 haired and gray-eyed countenance. His lighter made a \expndtw-2\i scrit \i0 and a flare which seemed to fill the room. Quietness dwelt on this height above the city, and winter dusk was \expndtw-3 seeping in through the windows. "How in cosmos do you \expndtw2 know that?" she heard herself exclaim.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 He shrugged and fell into the lecturer's manner for \expndtw-2 which he was notorious. "My work depends on noticing \expndtw-1 details and fitting them together. In more than a hundred \expndtw-2 years on Roland, the people, tending to cluster according \expndtw4 to their origins and thought-habits, have developed regional accents. You have a trace of the Olgan burr, \expndtw1 but you nasalize your vowels in the style of this area, \expndtw-2 though you live in Portolondon. That suggests steady \expndtw1 childhood exposure to metropolitan speech. You were \expndtw0 part of Matsuyama's expedition, you told me, and took your boy along. They wouldn't have allowed any ordi\-\expndtw-1 nary technician to do that; hence you had to be valuable enough to get away with it. The team was conducting \expndtw-2 ecological research; therefore you must be in the life sci\-\expndtw-1 ences. For the same reason, you must have had previous \expndtw0 field experience. But your skin is fair, showing none of \expndtw-1 the leatheriness one gets from prolonged exposure to this \expndtw-2 sun. Accordingly, you must have been mostly indoors for \expndtw1 a good while before you went on your ill-fated trip. As \expndtw-2 for widowhood\emdash you never mentioned a husband to me, \expndtw-1 but you have had a man whom you thought so highly of that you still wear both the wedding and the engagement \expndtw2 ring he gave you."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Her sight blurred and stung. The last of those words \expndtw-3 had brought Tim back, huge, ruddy, laughterful and gen\-\expndtw0 tle. She must turn from this other person and stare out\-\expndtw3 ward. "Yes," she achieved saying, "you're right."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li53\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 The apartment occupied a hilltop above Christmas \expndtw4 Landing. Beneath it the city dropped away in walls, \expndtw3 roofs, archaistic chimneys and lamplit streets, goblin \expndtw-2 lights of human-piloted vehicles, to the harbor, the sweep\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1973\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 330\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri62\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 of Venture Bay, ships bound to and from the Sunward Islands and remoter regions of the Boreal Ocean, which \expndtw-3 glimmered like mercury in the afterglow of Charlemagne. Oliver was swinging rapidly higher, a mottled orange disc \expndtw2 a full degree wide; closer to the zenith which it could \expndtw1 never reach, it would shine the color of ice. Alde, half \expndtw0 the seeming size, was a thin slow crescent near Sirius, \expndtw3 which she remembered was near Sol, but you couldn't \expndtw1 see Sol without a telescope\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Yes," she said around the pain in her throat, "my \expndtw-2 husband is about four years dead. I was carrying our first \expndtw0 child when he was killed by a stampeding monocerus. \expndtw4 We'd been married three years before. Met while we \expndtw-1 were both at the University\emdash 'casts from School Central \expndtw5 can only supply a basic education, you know\emdash we \expndtw0 founded our own team to do ecological studies under \expndtw-2 contract\emdash you know, can a certain area be settled while \expndtw0 maintaining a balance of nature, what crops will grow, \expndtw2 what hazards, that sort of question\emdash Well, afterward I \expndtw-1 did lab work for a fisher co-op in Portolondon. But the \expndtw-2 monotony, the . . . shut-in-ness . . . was eating me away. \expndtw0 Professor Matsuyama offered me a position on the team \expndtw4 he was organizing to examine Commissioner Hauch \expndtw-1 Land. I thought, God help me, I thought Jimmy\emdash Tim \expndtw2 wanted him named James, once the tests showed it'd be \expndtw-1 a boy, after his own father and because of 'Timmy and Jimmy' and\emdash  Oh, I thought Jimmy could safely come \expndtw2 along. I couldn't bear to leave him behind for months, \expndtw3 not at his age. We could make sure he'd never wander \expndtw-1 out of camp. What could hurt him inside it? / had never believed those stories about the Outlings stealing human children. I supposed parents were trying to hide from \expndtw0 themselves the fact they'd been careless, they'd let a kid \expndtw7 get lost in the woods or attacked by a pack of satans \expndtw-1 or\emdash  Well, I learned better, Mr. Sherrinford. The guard robots were evaded and the dogs were drugged and when \expndtw2 I woke, Jimmy was gone."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li67\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 He regarded her through the smoke from his pipe. \expndtw-2 Barbro Engdahl Cullen was a big woman of thirty or so \expndtw1 (Rolandic years, he reminded himself, ninety-five per\-\expndtw-2 cent of Terrestrial, not the same as Beowulfan years), \expndtw2 broad-shouldered, long-legged, full-breasted, supple of\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li672\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS      331\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri48\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 stride; her face was wide, straight nose, straightforward \expndtw-2 hazel eyes, heavy but mobile mouth; her hair was red\-dish-brown, cropped below the ears, her voice husky, her \expndtw-1 garment a plain street robe. To still the writhing of her \expndtw-2 fingers, he asked skeptically, "Do you now believe in the \expndtw-1 Outlings?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "No. I'm just not so sure as I was." She swung about \expndtw3 with half a glare for him. "And we have found traces."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Bits of fossils," he nodded. "A few artifacts of a neo\-\expndtw-1 lithic sort. But apparently ancient, as if the makers died ages ago. Intensive search has failed to turn up any real \expndtw1 evidence for their survival."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li14\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "How intensive can search be, in a summer-stormy, winter-gloomy wilderness around the North Pole?" she \expndtw1 demanded. "When we are, how many, a million people \expndtw4 on an entire planet, half of us crowded into this one \expndtw-1 city?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "And the rest crowding this one habitable continent," \expndtw3 he pointed out.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Arctica covers five million square kilometers," she \expndtw2 flung back. "The Arctic Zone proper covers a fourth of \expndtw0 it. We haven't the industrial base to establish satellite \expndtw4 monitor stations, build aircraft we can trust in those \expndtw0 parts, drive roads through the damned darklands and \expndtw4 establish permanent bases and get to know them and \expndtw-1 tame them. Good Christ, generations of lonely outway-\expndtw1 men told stories about Graymantle, and the beast was \expndtw2 never seen by a proper scientist till last year!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "Still, you continue to doubt the reality of the \expndtw-1 Outlings?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Well, what about a secret cult among humans, bora of isolation and ignorance, lairing in the wilderness, \expndtw0 stealing children when they can for\emdash " She swallowed. \expndtw6 Her head drooped. "But you're supposed to be the \expndtw3 expert."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "From what you told me over the visiphone, the Porto-london constabulary questions the accuracy of the report your group made, thinks the lot of you were hysterical, \expndtw-1 claims you must have omitted a due precaution and the \expndtw2 child toddled away and was lost beyond your finding."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 His dry words pried the horror out of her. Flushing, \expndtw1 she snapped: "Like any settler's kid? No. I didn't simply\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1973\cf1\expndtw-13\fs22 332\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri43\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 yell. I consulted Data Retrieval. A few \i too \i0 many such \expndtw-1 cases are recorded for accident to be a very plausible explanation. And shall we totally ignore the frightened \expndtw3 stories about reappearances? But when I went back to \expndtw-1 the constabulary with my facts, they brushed me off. I \expndtw-4 suspect that was not entirely because they're undermanned. \expndtw0 I think they're afraid too. They're recruited from country \expndtw8 boys; and Portolondon lies near the edge of the \expndtw1 unknown."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Her energy faded. "Roland hasn't got any central po\-\expndtw2 lice force," she finished drably. "You're my last hope."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 The man puffed smoke into twilight, with which it \expndtw0 blent, before he said in a kindlier voice than hitherto: "Please don't make it a high hope, Mrs. Cullen. I'm the solitary private investigator on this world, having no \expndtw2 resources beyond myself, and a newcomer to boot."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "How long have you been here?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Twelve years. Barely time to get a little familiarity \expndtw-2 with the relatively civilized coastlands. You settlers of a \expndtw0 century or more\emdash what do you, even, know about Arc-\expndtw2 tica's interior?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Sherrinford sighed. "I'll take the case, charging no \expndtw-2 more than I must, mainly for the sake of the experience," \expndtw-1 he said. "But only if you'll be my guide and assistant, \expndtw2 however painful it will be for you."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Of course! I dreaded waiting idle. Why me, though?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Hiring someone else as well qualified would be pro\-\expndtw2 hibitively expensive, on a pioneer planet where every \expndtw4 hand has a thousand urgent tasks to do. Besides, you \expndtw3 have motive. And I'll need that. I, who was born on \expndtw0 another world altogether strange to this one, itself alto\-\expndtw4 gether strange to Mother Earth, I am too dauntingly \expndtw3 aware of how handicapped we are."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 Night gathered upon Christmas Landing. The air \expndtw0 stayed mild, but glimmer-lit tendrils of fog, sneaking \expndtw1 through the streets, had a cold look, and colder yet was the aurora where it shuddered between the moons. The \expndtw-1 woman drew closer to the man in this darkening room, surely not aware that she did, until he switched on a fluoropanel. The same knowledge of Roland's aloneness \expndtw4 was in both of them.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li672\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS      333\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri43\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 One light-year is not much as galactic distances go. \expndtw0 You could walk it in about 270 million years, beginning \expndtw6 at the middle of the Permian Era, when dinosaurs \expndtw2 belonged to the remote future, and continuing to the \expndtw0 present day when spaceships cross even greater reaches.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 But stars in our neighborhood average some nine light-years apart; and barely one percent of them have planets \expndtw0 which are man-habitable; and speeds are limited to less \expndtw-1 than that of radiation. Scant help is given by relativistic \expndtw4 time contraction and suspended animation en route. \expndtw-1 These make the journeys seem short; but history mean\-\expndtw3 while does not stop at home.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 Thus voyages from sun to sun will always be few. Colo\-\expndtw2 nists will be those who have extremely special reasons \expndtw-3 for going. They will take along germ plasm for exogenetic \expndtw5 cultivation of domestic plants and animals\emdash and of \expndtw0 human infants, in order that population can grow fast enough to escape death through genetic drift. After all, \expndtw1 they cannot rely on further immigration. Two or three \expndtw-2 times a century, a ship may call from some other colony. \expndtw0 (Not from Earth. Earth has long ago sunk into alien con\-\expndtw-1 cerns.) Its place of origin will be an old settlement. The young ones are in no position to build and man interstel\-\expndtw-3 lar vessels.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Their very survival, let alone their eventual moderniza\-\expndtw1 tion, is in doubt. The founding fathers have had to take \expndtw-3 what they could get, in a universe not especially designed \expndtw1 for man.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li38\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Consider, for example, Roland. It is among the rare \expndtw3 happy finds, a world where humans can live, breathe, \expndtw-2 eat the food, drink the water, walk unclad if they choose, \expndtw3 sow their crops, pasture their beasts, dig their mines, \expndtw-1 erect their homes, raise their children and grandchildren. It is worth crossing three quarters of a light-century to preserve certain dear values and strike new roots into the \expndtw0 soil of Roland.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 But the star Charlemagne is of type F9, forty percent \expndtw-1 brighter than Sol, brighter still in the treacherous ultravi\-\expndtw-2 olet and wilder still in the wind of charged particles that \expndtw0 seethes from it. The planet has an eccentric orbit. In the \expndtw-1 middle of the short but furious northern summer, which \expndtw1 includes periastron, total insolation is more than double\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1968\cf1\expndtw-13\fs22 334\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri53\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 what Earth gets; in the depth of the long northern winter, \expndtw-2 it is barely less than Terrestrial average.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 Native life is abundant everywhere. But lacking elabo\-\expndtw-3 rate machinery, not economically possible to construct \expndtw-5 for more than a few specialists, man can only endure the \expndtw-3 high latitudes. A ten-degree axial tilt, together with the \expndtw-4 orbit, means that the northern part of the Arctican conti\-\expndtw2 nent spends half its year in unbroken sunlessness. \expndtw-1 Around the South Pole lies an empty ocean.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 Other differences from Earth might superficially seem \expndtw-5 more important. Roland has two moons, small but close, \expndtw0 to evoke clashing tides. It rotates once in thirty-two \expndtw-6 hours, which is endlessly, subtly disturbing to organisms \expndtw-3 evolved through gigayears of a quicker rhythm. The \expndtw-1 weather patterns are altogether unterrestrial. The globe \expndtw-5 is a mere 9500 kilometers in diameter; its surface gravity \expndtw-7 is 0.42 x 980 cm/sec\super 2\nosupersub ; the sea-level air pressure is slightly \expndtw-3 above one Earth atmosphere. (For actually Earth is the freak, and man exists because a cosmic accident blew \expndtw-4 away most of the gas that a body its size ought to have \expndtw0 kept, as Venus has done.)\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 However, \i Homo \i0 can truly be called \i sapiens \i0 when he \expndtw1 practices his specialty of being unspecialized. His \expndtw-6 repeated attempts to freeze himself into an all-answering \expndtw-5 pattern or culture or ideology, or whatever he has named it, have repeatedly brought ruin. Give him the pragmatic \expndtw-8 business of making his living and he will usually do rather \expndtw-2 well. He adapts, within broad limits.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 These limits are set by such factors as his need for \expndtw-5 sunlight and his being, necessarily and forever, a part of \expndtw-3 the life that surrounds him and a creature of the spirit \expndtw-8 within.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 Portolondon thrust docks, boats, machinery, ware\-\expndtw0 houses into the Gulf of Polaris. Behind them huddled \expndtw-6 the dwellings of its 5000 permanent inhabitants: concrete \expndtw-4 walls, storm shutters, high-peaked tile roofs. The gaiety \expndtw-5 of their paint looked forlorn amidst lamps; this town lay \expndtw-2 past the Arctic Circle.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Nevertheless Sherrinford remarked, "Cheerful place, \expndtw0 eh? The kind of thing I came to Roland looking for."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 Barbro made no reply. The days in Christmas Landing,\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li672\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS      335\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri58\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 while he made his preparations, had drained her. Gazing \expndtw0 out the dome of the taxi that was whirring them down\-\expndtw-1 town from the hydrofoil that brought them, she supposed \expndtw0 he meant the lushness of forest and meadows along the \expndtw-2 road, brilliant hues and phosphorescence of flowers in \expndtw1 gardens, clamor of wings overhead. Unlike Terrestrial \expndtw-1 flora in cold climates, Arctican vegetation spends every daylit hour in frantic growth and energy storage. Not till \expndtw-2 summer's fever gives place to gentle winter does it bloom and fruit; and estivating animals rise from their dens and \expndtw0 migratory birds come home.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 The view was lovely, she had to admit: beyond the \expndtw-3 trees, a spaciousness climbing toward remote heights, sil\-\expndtw-1 very-gray under a moon, an aurora, the diffuse radiance \expndtw3 from a sun just below the horizon.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Beautiful as a hunting satan, she thought, and as terri\-ble. That wilderness had stolen Jimmy. She wondered if \expndtw2 she would at least be given to find his little bones and \expndtw4 take them to his father.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Abruptly she realized that she and Sherrinford were at \expndtw1 their hotel and that he had been speaking of the town. \expndtw-1 Since it was next in size after the capital, he must have \expndtw0 visited here often before. The streets were crowded and \expndtw-2 noisy; signs flickered, music blared from shops, taverns, \expndtw0 restaurants, sports centers, dance halls; vehicles were \expndtw-3 jammed down to molasses speed; the several-stories-high office buildings stood aglow. Portolondon linked an enor\-\expndtw0 mous hinterland to the outside world. Down the Gloria River came timber rafts, ores, harvest of farms whose \expndtw1 owners were slowly making Rolandic life serve them, \expndtw-2 meat and ivory and furs gathered by rangers in the moun\-tains beyond Troll Scarp. In from the sea came coastwise \expndtw3 freighters, the fishing fleet, produce of the Sunward \expndtw-1 Islands, plunder of whole continents further south where \expndtw8 bold men adventured. It clanged in Portolondon, \expndtw5 laughed, blustered, swaggered, connived, robbed, \expndtw-2 preached, guzzled, swilled, toiled, dreamed, lusted, built, \expndtw-1 destroyed, died, was born, was happy, angry, sorrowful, \expndtw1 greedy, vulgar, loving, ambitious, human. Neither the \expndtw-1 sun's blaze elsewhere nor the half year's twilight here\emdash  \expndtw-3 wholly night around midwinter\emdash was going to stay man's \expndtw-1 hand.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1968\cf1\expndtw-13\fs22 336\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Or so everybody said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li5\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Everybody except those who had settled in the dark-lands. Barbro used to take for granted that they were evolving curious customs, legends, and superstitions, \expndtw-6 which would die when the outway had been completely \expndtw-4 mapped and controlled. Of late, she had wondered. Per\-haps Sherrinford's hints, about a change in his own atti\-\expndtw-5 tude brought about by his preliminary research, were \expndtw-6 responsible.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Or perhaps she just needed something to think about \expndtw-5 besides how Jimmy, the day before he went, when she \expndtw-4 asked him whether he wanted rye or French bread for a \expndtw-6 sandwich, answered in great solemnity\emdash he was becom\-\expndtw-4 ing interested in the alphabet\emdash "I'll have a slice of what \expndtw0 we people call the F bread."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 She scarcely noticed getting out of the taxi, registering, \expndtw-2 being conducted to a primitively furnished room. But \expndtw-6 after she unpacked she remembered Sherrinford had sug\-\expndtw-5 gested a confidential conference. She went down the hall \expndtw-6 and knocked on his door. Her knuckles sounded less loud \expndtw1 than her heart.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 He opened the door, finger on lips, and gestured her \expndtw-4 toward a corner. Her temper bristled until she saw the \expndtw-7 image of Chief Constable Dawson in the visiphone. Sher\-rinford must have chimed him up and must have a reason \expndtw-3 to keep her out of scanner range. She found a chair and \expndtw-4 watched, nails digging into knees.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi197\li38\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 The detective's lean length refolded itself. "Pardon the \expndtw-1 interruption," he said. "A man mistook the number. Drunk, by the indications."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Dawson chuckled. "We get plenty of those." Barbro \expndtw-4 recalled his fondness for gabbing. He tugged the beard \expndtw-2 which he affected, as if he were an outwayer instead of \expndtw1 a townsman. "No harm in them as a rule. They only \expndtw-5 have a lot of voltage to discharge, after weeks or months \expndtw-1 in the backlands."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "I've gathered that that environment\emdash foreign in a mil\-lion major and minor ways to the one that created man\emdash  \expndtw-3 I've gathered that it does do odd things to the personal\-\expndtw-5 ity." Sherrinford tamped his pipe. "Of course, you know \expndtw-3 my practice has been confined to urban and suburban areas. Isolated garths seldom need private investigators.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li672\cf1\fs22 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS       337\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Now that situation appears to have changed. I called to ask you for advice."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Glad to help," Dawson said. "I've not forgotten what \expndtw-2 you did for us in the de Tahoe murder case." Cautiously: \expndtw3 "Better explain your problem first."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Sherrinford struck fire. The smoke that followed cut \expndtw-2 through the green odors\emdash even here, a paved pair of kilo\-\expndtw-1 meters from the nearest woods\emdash that drifted past traffic \expndtw-2 rumble through a crepuscular window. "This is more a scientific mission than a search for an absconding debtor \expndtw-1 or an industrial spy," he drawled. "I'm looking into two \expndtw-3 possibilities: that an organization, criminal or religious or \expndtw-1 whatever, has long been active and steals infants; or that \expndtw3 the Outlings of folklore are real."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Huh?" On Dawson's face Barbro read as much dis\-\expndtw3 may as surprise. "You can't be serious!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Can't I?" Sherrinford smiled. "Several generations' worth of reports shouldn't be dismissed out of hand. \expndtw-3 Especially not when they become more frequent and con\-\expndtw-1 sistent in the course of time, not less. Nor can we ignore \expndtw3 the documented loss of babies and small children, \expndtw-1 amounting by now to over a hundred, and never a trace \expndtw2 found afterward. Nor the finds which demonstrate that \expndtw-3 an intelligent species once inhabited Arctica and may still \expndtw4 haunt the interior."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 Dawson leaned forward as if to climb out of the screen. \expndtw7 "Who engaged you?" he demanded. "That Cullen \expndtw-2 woman? We were sorry for her, naturally, but she wasn't \expndtw1 making sense and when she got downright abusive\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Didn't her companions, reputable scientists, confirm \expndtw3 her story?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "No story to confirm. Look, they had the place ringed with detectors and alarms, and they kept mastiffs. Stan\-\expndtw0 dard procedure in a country where a hungry sauroid or \expndtw-1 whatever might happen by. Nothing could've entered \expndtw0 unbeknownst."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li58\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "On the ground. How about a flyer landing in the \expndtw1 middle of camp?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li278\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "A man in a copter rig would've roused everybody."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "A winged being might be quieter."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li67\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "A living flyer that could lift a three-year-old boy? \expndtw3 Doesn't exist."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1968\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 338\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri38\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Isn't in the scientific literature, you mean, Constable. Remember Graymantle; remember how little we know \expndtw1 about Roland, a planet, an entire world. Such birds do \expndtw-1 exist on Beowulf\emdash and on Rustum, I've read. I made a \expndtw0 calculation from the local ratio of air density to gravity \expndtw4 and, yes, it's marginally possible here too. The child \expndtw1 could have been carried off for a short distance before \expndtw0 wing muscles were exhausted and the creature must \expndtw1 descend."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Dawson snorted. "First it landed and walked into the \expndtw-1 tent where mother and boy were asleep. Then it walked away, toting him, after it couldn't fly further. Does that sound like a bird of prey? And the victim didn't cry out, \expndtw3 the dogs didn't bark, nothing!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "As a matter of fact," Sherrinford said, "those incon\-\expndtw-2 sistencies are the most interesting and convincing feature \expndtw3 of the whole account. You're right, it's hard to see how \expndtw-2 a human kidnapper could get in undetected, and an eagle \expndtw3 type of creature wouldn't operate in that fashion. But \expndtw2 none of this applies to a winged intelligent being. The \expndtw-3 boy could have been drugged. Certainly the dogs showed \expndtw1 signs of having been."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "The dogs showed signs of having overslept. Nothing \expndtw1 had disturbed them. The kid wandering by wouldn't do \expndtw4 so. We don't need to assume one damn thing except, first, that he got restless and, second, that the alarms \expndtw-3 were a bit sloppily rigged\emdash seeing as how no danger was \expndtw-1 expected from inside camp\emdash and let him pass out. And, \expndtw0 third, I hate to speak this way, but we must assume the \expndtw3 poor tyke starved or was killed."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Dawson paused before adding: "If we had more staff, \expndtw1 we could have given the affair more time. And would have, of course. We did make an aerial sweep, which \expndtw-2 risked the lives of the pilots, using instruments which \expndtw-1 would've spotted the kid anywhere in a fifty-kilometer \expndtw-3 radius, unless he was dead. You know how sensitive ther\-\expndtw-2 mal analyzers are. We drew a complete blank. We have \expndtw-1 more important jobs than to hunt for the scattered pieces \expndtw4 of a corpse."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 He finished brusquely, "If Mrs. Cullen's hired you, my \expndtw-1 advice is you find an excuse to quit. Better for her, too. \expndtw3 She's got to come to terms with reality."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li667\cf1\expndtw-1\fs22 THE QUEEN OF AIR\b  \b0 AND DARKNESS       339\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li211\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Barbro checked a shout by biting her tongue.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Oh, this is merely the latest disappearance of the \expndtw0 series," Sherrinford said. She didn't understand how he \expndtw4 could maintain his easy tone when Jimmy was lost. \expndtw-1 "More thoroughly recorded than any before, thus more \expndtw-2 suggestive. Usually an outwayer family has given a tear\-\expndtw2 ful but undetailed account of their child who vanished \expndtw-2 and must have been stolen by the Old Folk. Sometimes, years later, they'd tell about glimpses of what they swore \expndtw-1 must have been the grown child, not really human any \expndtw-2 longer, flitting past in murk or peering through a window \expndtw-3 or working mischief upon them. As you say, neither the \expndtw3 authorities nor the scientists have had personnel or \expndtw0 resources to mount a proper investigation. But as I say, \expndtw-1 the matter appears to be worth investigating. Maybe a \expndtw2 private party like myself can contribute."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Listen, most of us constables grew up in the outway. \expndtw3 We don't just ride patrol and answer emergency calls, \expndtw0 we go back there for holidays and reunions. If any gang \expndtw3 of \expndtw59 ...\expndtw3  of human sacrificers was around, we'd know."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I realize that. I also realize that the people you came \expndtw-3 from have a widespread and deep-seated belief in nonhu-\expndtw-2 man beings with supernatural powers. Many actually go \expndtw3 through rites and make offerings to propitiate them."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I know what you're leading up to," Dawson fleered. \expndtw4 "I've heard it before, from a hundred sensationalists. \expndtw0 The aborigines are the Outlings. I thought better of you. Surely you've visited a museum or three, surely you've \expndtw-1 read literature from planets which do have natives\emdash or damn and blast, haven't you ever applied that logic of yours?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 He wagged a finger. "Think," he said. "What have we \expndtw-2 in fact discovered? A few pieces of worked stone; a few \expndtw-3 megaliths that might be artificial; scratchings on rock that \expndtw3 seem to show plants and animals, though not the way \expndtw0 any human culture would ever have shown them; traces \expndtw-1 of fires and broken bones; other fragments of bone that \expndtw0 seem as if they might've belonged to thinking creatures, \expndtw3 as if they might've been inside fingers or around big \expndtw1 brains. If so, however, the owners looked nothing like \expndtw9 men. Or angels, for that matter. Nothing! The most\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1978\cf1\expndtw-7\fs21 340\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri48\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 anthropoid reconstruction I've seen shows a kind of two-\expndtw-1 legged crocagator.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Wait, let me finish. The stories about the Outlings\emdash  oh, I've heard them too, plenty of them; I believed them when I was a kid\emdash the stories tell how there're different \expndtw-2 kinds, some winged, some not, some half-human, some \expndtw3 completely human except maybe for being too hand\-\expndtw0 some\emdash It's fairyland from ancient Earth all over again. \expndtw1 Isn't it? I got interested once and dug into the Heritage \expndtw-1 Library microfiles, and be damned if I didn't find almost \expndtw0 the identical yarns, told by peasants centuries before \expndtw-4 spaceflight.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "None of it squares with the scanty relics we have, if they are relics, or with the fact that no area the size of \expndtw-2 Arctica could spawn a dozen different intelligent species, \expndtw-5 or \expndtw34 ...\expndtw-5  hellfire, man, with the way your common sense tells \expndtw-2 you aborigines would behave when humans arrived!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 Sherrinford nodded. "Yes, yes," he said. "I'm less sure than you that the common sense of nonhuman \expndtw-2 beings is precisely like our own. I've seen so much varia\-\expndtw0 tion within mankind. But, granted, your arguments are \expndtw1 strong. Roland's too few scientists have more pressing \expndtw2 tasks than tracking down the origins of what is, as you \expndtw3 put it, a revived medieval superstition."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 He cradled his pipe bowl in both hands and peered \expndtw3 into the tiny hearth of it. "Perhaps what interests me \expndtw-2 most," he said softly, "is why\emdash across that gap of centu\-\expndtw5 ries, across a barrier of machine civilization and its \expndtw-1 utterly antagonistic world-view\emdash no continuity of tradi\-\expndtw-3 tion whatsoever\emdash why have hardheaded, technologically \expndtw4 organized, reasonably well-educated colonists here brought back from its grave a belief in the Old Folk?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "I suppose eventually, if the University ever does \expndtw1 develop the psychology department they keep talking \expndtw2 about, I suppose eventually somebody will get a thesis \expndtw1 out of that question." Dawson spoke in a jagged voice, \expndtw2 and he gulped when Sherrinford replied:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "I propose to begin now. In Commissioner Hauch \expndtw2 Land, since that's where the latest incident occurred. \expndtw4 Where can I rent a vehicle?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "Uh, might be hard to do\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "Come, come. Tenderfoot or not, I know better. In\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li667\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS      341\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri58\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 an economy of scarcity, few people own heavy equip\-\expndtw2 ment. But since it's needed, it can always be rented. I \expndtw3 want a camper bus with a ground-effect drive suitable \expndtw-1 for every kind of terrain. And I want certain equipment installed which I've brought along, and the top canopy \expndtw0 section replaced by a gun turret controllable from the driver's seat. But I'll supply the weapons. Besides rifles and pistols of my own, I've arranged to borrow some \expndtw1 artillery from Christmas Landing's police arsenal."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi197\li29\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Hoy? Are you genuinely intending to make ready for \expndtw50 ...\expndtw0  \expndtw6 a war . . . against a myth?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Let's say I'm taking out insurance, which isn't terribly \expndtw-3 expensive, against a remote possibility. Now, besides the \expndtw-1 bus, what about a light aircraft carried piggyback for use in surveys?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "No." Dawson sounded more positive than hitherto. "That's asking for disaster. We can have you flown to a \expndtw1 base camp in a large plane when the weather report's \expndtw-2 exactly right. But the pilot will have to fly back at once, \expndtw0 before the weather turns wrong again. Meteorology's \expndtw-1 underdeveloped on Roland, the air's especially treacher\-ous this time of year, and we're not tooled up to produce aircraft that can outlive every surprise." He drew breath. \expndtw-4 "Have you no idea of how fast a whirly-whirly can hit, or \expndtw-3 what size hailstones might strike from a clear sky, or\emdash ? \expndtw-1 Once you're there, man, you stick to the ground." He hesitated. "That's an important reason our information is \expndtw-4 so scanty about the outway and its settlers are so isolated."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 Sherrinford laughed ruefully. "Well, I suppose if \expndtw2 details are what I'm after, I must creep along anyway."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "You'll waste a lot of time," Dawson said. "Not to \expndtw2 mention your client's money. Listen, I can't forbid you \expndtw1 to chase shadows, but\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The discussion went on for almost an hour. When the screen finally blanked, Sherrinford rose, stretched, and \expndtw-5 walked toward Barbro. She noticed anew his peculiar gait. \expndtw-2 He had come from a planet with a fourth again Earth's \expndtw-3 gravitational drag, to one where weight was less than half \expndtw-2 Terrestrial. She wondered if he had flying dreams.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "I apologize for shuffling you off like that," he said. \expndtw-1 "I didn't expect to reach him at once. He was quite truth\-\expndtw5 ful about how busy he is. But having made contact, I\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1968\cf1\expndtw-7\fs24 342\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri53\sb202\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 didn't want to remind him overmuch of you. He can \expndtw-6 dismiss my project as a futile fantasy which I'll soon give \expndtw-2 up. But he might have frozen completely, might even \expndtw-4 have put up obstacles before us, if he'd realized through \expndtw-1 you how determined we are."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "Why should he care?" she asked in her bitterness.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "Fear of consequences, the worse because it is unad\-\expndtw2 mitted\emdash fear of consequences, the more terrifying \expndtw-3 because they are unguessable." Sherrinford's gaze went to the screen, and thence out the window to the aurora \expndtw-7 pulsing in glacial blue and white immensely far overhead. \expndtw-4 "I suppose you saw I was talking to a frightened man. \expndtw-5 Down underneath his conventionality and scoffing, he \expndtw-3 believes in the Outlings\emdash oh, yes, he believes."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri29\sb226\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 The feet of Mistherd flew over yerba and outpaced \expndtw-7 windblown driftweed. Beside him, black and misshapen, \expndtw-2 hulked Nagrim the nicor, whose earthquake weight left \expndtw-3 a swathe of crushed plants. Behind, luminous blossoms \expndtw-5 of a firethom shone through the twining, trailing outlines \expndtw-3 of Morgarel the wraith.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 Here Cloudmoor rose in a surf of hills and thickets. \expndtw-4 The air lay quiet, now and then carrying the distance-\expndtw-5 muted howl of a beast. It was darker than usual at win-terbirth, the moons being down and aurora a wan flicker \expndtw-2 above mountains on the northern worldedge. But this \expndtw-5 made the stars keen, and their numbers crowded heaven, \expndtw0 and Ghost Road shone among them as if it, like the \expndtw-3 leafage beneath, were paved with dew.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 "Yonder!" bawled Nagrim. All four of his arms \expndtw-5 pointed. The party had topped a ridge. Far off glimmered \expndtw-2 a spark. "Hoah, hoah! 'Ull we right off stamp dem flat, \expndtw-1 or pluck dem apart slow?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\i\fs24 We shall do nothing of the son, bonebrain, \i0 Morgarel's \expndtw-2 answer slid through their heads. \i Not unless they attack \expndtw-4 us, and they will not unless we make them aware of us, and her command is that we spy out their purposes.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li53\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "Gr-r-rum-m-m.. I know deir aim. Cut down trees, \expndtw-5 stick plows in land, sow deir cursed seed in de clods and in deir shes. 'Less we drive dem into de bitterwater, and \expndtw-1 soon, soon, dey'll wax too strong for us."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li672\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS      343\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri72\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Not too strong for the Queen!" Mistherd protested, \expndtw-3 shocked.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi226\ri72\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\i\fs23 Yet they do have new powers, it seems, \i0 Morgarel \expndtw1 reminded him. \i Carefully must we probe them.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Den carefully can we step on dem?" asked Nagrim.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li10\ri62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The question woke a grin out of Mistherd's own uneas\-\expndtw1 iness. He slapped the scaly back. "Don't talk, you," he \expndtw0 said. "It hurts my ears. Nor think; that hurts your head. \expndtw4 Come, run!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\i\fs23 Ease yourself, \i0 Morgarel scolded. \i You have too much \expndtw2 life in you, human-born.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Mistherd made a face at the wraith, but obeyed to the \expndtw-3 extent of slowing down and picking his way through what \expndtw0 cover the country afforded. For he traveled on behalf of the Fairest, to learn what had brought a pair of mortals questing hither.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Did they seek that boy whom Ayoch stole? (He contin\-\expndtw4 ued to weep for his mother, though less and less often \expndtw1 as the marvels of Carheddin entered him.) Perhaps. A \expndtw2 birdcraft had left them and their car at the now aban\-\expndtw0 doned campsite, from which they had followed an out\-ward spiral. But when no trace of the cub had appeared \expndtw-1 inside a reasonable distance, they did not call to be flown \expndtw1 home. And this wasn't because weather forbade the far-\expndtw0 speaker waves to travel, as was frequently the case. No, \expndtw3 instead the couple set off toward the mountains of \expndtw-1 Moonhorn. Their course would take them past a few out\-lying invader steadings and on into realms untrodden by \expndtw1 their race.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 So this was no ordinary survey. Then what was it?\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Mistherd understood now why she who reigned had \expndtw1 made her adopted mortal children learn, or retain, the \expndtw-4 clumsy language of their forebears. He had hated that drill, \expndtw-1 wholly foreign to Dweller ways. Of course, you obeyed \expndtw1 her, and in time you saw how wise she had been. . . .\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Presently he left Nagrim behind a rock\emdash the nicor \expndtw0 would only be useful in a fight\emdash and crawled from bush \expndtw2 to bush until he lay within man-lengths of the humans. \expndtw3 A rainplant drooped over him, leaves soft on his bare \expndtw2 skin, and clothed him in darkness. Morgarel floated to \expndtw-2 the crown of a shiverleaf, whose unrest would better con\-\expndtw0 ceal his flimsy shape. He'd not be much help either. And\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1968\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 344\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri34\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 that was the most troublous, the almost appalling thing \expndtw-6 here. Wraiths were among those who could not just sense \expndtw-1 and send thoughts, but cast illusions. Morgarel had \expndtw-3 reported that this time his power seemed to rebound off an invisible cold wall around the car.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Otherwise the male and female had set up no guardian \expndtw-3 engines and kept no dogs. Belike they supposed none \expndtw-2 would be needed, since they slept in the long vehicle which bore them. But such contempt of the Queen's \expndtw-1 strength could not be tolerated, could it?\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Metal sheened faintly by the light of their campfire. They sat on either side, wrapped in coats against a cool\-ness that Mistherd, naked, found mild. The mate drank \expndtw-1 smoke. The female stared past him into a dusk which \expndtw-4 her flame-dazzled eyes must see as thick gloom. The \expndtw-2 dancing glow brought her vividly forth. Yes, to judge \expndtw-1 from Ayoch's tale, she was the dam of the new cub.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 Ayoch had wanted to come too, but the Wonderful \expndtw-3 One forbade. Pooks couldn't hold still long enough for \expndtw-5 such a mission.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 The man sucked on his pipe. His cheeks thus pulled into shadow while the light flickered across nose and \expndtw-4 brow, he looked disquietingly like a shearbill about to \expndtw-2 stoop on prey.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "\emdash No, I tell you again, Barbro, I have no theories," \expndtw-6 he was saying. "When facts are insufficient, theorizing is \expndtw-2 ridiculous at best, misleading at worst."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 "Still, you must have some idea of what you're doing," \expndtw1 she said. It was plain that they had threshed this out \expndtw0 often before. No Dweller could be as persistent as her \expndtw-5 or as patient as him. "That gear you packed\emdash that gener\-\expndtw-2 ator you keep running\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi226\li34\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 "I have a working hypothesis or two, which suggested \expndtw1 what equipment I ought to take."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "Why won't you tell me what the hypotheses are?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "They themselves indicate that that might be inadvis\-\expndtw0 able at the present time. I'm still feeling my way into \expndtw-3 the labyrinth. And I haven't had a chance yet to hook \expndtw-5 everything up. In fact, we're really only protected against so-called telepathic influence\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "What?" She started. "Do you mean . . . those leg\-\expndtw-3 ends about how they can read minds too\emdash " Her words\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li667\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS      345\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 trailed off and her gaze sought the darkness beyond his \expndtw-7 shoulders.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 He leaned forward. His tone lost its clipped rapidity, \expndtw-2 grew earnest and soft. "Barbro, you're racking yourself to pieces. Which is no help to Jimmy if he's alive, the \expndtw-5 more so when you may well be badly needed later on. \expndtw-3 We've a long trek before us, and you'd better settle into \expndtw2 it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 She nodded jerkily and caught her lip between her \expndtw-1 teeth for a moment before she answered, "I'm trying."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 He smiled around his pipe. "I expect you'll succeed. \expndtw4 You don't strike me as a quitter or a whiner or an \expndtw-2 enjoyer of misery."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 She dropped a hand to the pistol at her belt. Her voice changed; it came out of her throat like knife from sheath. \expndtw-2 "When we find them, they'll know what I am. What \expndtw-1 humans are."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 "Put anger aside also," the man urged. "We can't \expndtw-1 afford emotions. If the Outlings are real, as I told you \expndtw-3 I'm provisionally assuming, they're fighting for their \expndtw-4 homes." After a short stillness he added: "I like to think \expndtw-1 that if the first explorers had found live natives, men \expndtw-5 would not have colonized Roland. But too late now. We \expndtw-4 can't go back if we wanted to. It's a bitter-end struggle, \expndtw-5 against an enemy so crafty that he's even hidden from us \expndtw-1 the fact that he is waging war."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "Is he? I mean, skulking, kidnapping an occasional \expndtw-10 child\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "That's part of my hypothesis. I suspect those aren't \expndtw-6 harassments, they're tactics employed in a chillingly sub\-\expndtw-2 tle strategy."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi197\li43\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 The fire sputtered and sparked. The man smoked \expndtw-2 awhile, brooding, until he went on:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "I didn't want to raise your hopes or excite you unduly \expndtw-6 while you had to wait on me, first in Christmas Landing, then in Portolondon. Afterward we were busy satisfying \expndtw-5 ourselves Jimmy had been taken further from camp than he could have wandered before collapsing. So I'm only \expndtw-7 telling you now how thoroughly I studied available mate\-\expndtw4 rial on the \expndtw57 ...\expndtw4  Old Folk. Besides, at first I did it on \expndtw-6 the principle of eliminating every imaginable possibility, \expndtw2 however absurd. I expected no result other than final\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1963\cf1\expndtw-12\fs22 346\expndtw0\tab\i Poul Anderson\cf0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri34\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 disproof. But I went through everything, relics, analyses, \expndtw-1 histories, journalistic accounts, monographs; I talked to \expndtw0 outwayers who happened to be in town and to what sci\-entists we have who've taken any interest in the matter. I'm a quick study. I flatter myself I became as expert as \expndtw3 anyone\emdash though God knows there's little to be expert \expndtw6 on. Furthermore, I, a comparative stranger, maybe \expndtw0 looked on the problem with fresh eyes. And a pattern \expndtw1 emerged for me.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "If the aborigines became extinct, why didn't they \expndtw1 leave more remnants? Arctica isn't enormous; and it's fertile for Rolandic life. It ought to have supported a population whose artifacts ought to have accumulated over millennia. I've read that on Earth, literally tens of \expndtw-1 thousands of paleolithic hand axes were found, more by \expndtw0 chance than archaeology.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 "Very well. Suppose the relics and fossils were deliber\-\expndtw3 ately removed, between the time the last survey party \expndtw-2 left and the first colonizing ships arrived. I did find some \expndtw-1 support for that idea in the diaries of the original explor\-ers. They were too preoccupied with checking the habit-\expndtw-2 ability of the planet to make catalogues of primitive \expndtw1 monuments. However, the remarks they wrote down \expndtw-2 indicate they saw much more than later arrivals did. Sup\-\expndtw-1 pose what we have found is just what the removers over\-\expndtw4 looked or didn't get around to.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "That argues a sophisticated mentality, thinking in \expndtw2 long-range terms, doesn't it? Which in turn argues that \expndtw9 the Old Folk were not mere hunters or neolithic \expndtw1 farmers."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "But nobody ever saw buildings or machines or any \expndtw3 such thing," Barbro protested.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "No. Most likely the natives didn't go through our \expndtw2 kind of metallurgy-industrial evolution. I can conceive \expndtw3 of other paths to take. Their full-fledged civilization \expndtw0 might have begun, rather than ended, in biological sci\-\expndtw-2 ence and technology. It might have developed potentiali\-\expndtw3 ties of the nervous system, which might be greater in \expndtw4 their species than in man. We have those abilities to \expndtw5 some degree ourselves, you realize. A dowser, for \expndtw-1 instance, actually senses variations in the local magnetic \expndtw2 field caused by a water table. However, in us, these tal-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li744\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS      347\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li72\ri48\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 ents are maddeningly rare and tricky. So we took our \expndtw3 business elsewhere. Who needs to be a telepath, say, \expndtw2 when he has a visiphone? The Old Folk may have seen \expndtw-2 it the other way around. The artifacts of their civilization \expndtw2 may have been, may still be, unrecognizable to men."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li82\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "They could have identified themselves to the men, \expndtw4 though," Barbro said. "Why didn't they?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li82\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I can imagine any number of reasons. As, they could \expndtw-2 have had a bad experience with interstellar visitors earlier \expndtw0 in their history. Ours is scarcely the sole race that has \expndtw5 spaceships. However, I told you I don't theorize in \expndtw0 advance of the facts. Let's say no more than that the Old \expndtw4 Folk, if they exist, are alien to us."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li86\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "For a rigorous thinker, you're spinning a mighty thin \expndtw5 thread."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li91\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw9\fs23 "I've admitted this is entirely provisional." He \expndtw-1 squinted at her through a roil of campfire smoke. "You came to me, Barbro, insisting in the teeth of officialdom \expndtw-2 your boy had been stolen; but your own talk about cultist \expndtw3 kidnappers was ridiculous. Why are you reluctant to \expndtw2 admit the reality of nonhumans?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi307\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "In spite of the fact that Jimmy's being alive probably \expndtw11 . depends on it," she sighed.  "I know." A shudder: \expndtw5 "Maybe I don't dare admit it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li101\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "I've said nothing thus far that hasn't been speculated \expndtw-1 about in print," he told her. "A disreputable speculation, \expndtw2 true. In a hundred years, nobody has found valid evi\-\expndtw1 dence for the Outlings being more than a superstition. \expndtw-1 Still, a few people have declared it's at least possible \expndtw2 intelligent natives are at large in the wilderness."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li106\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "I know," she repeated. "I'm not sure, though, what \expndtw10 has made you, overnight, take those arguments \expndtw-1 seriously."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li110\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Well, once you got me started thinking, it occurred \expndtw0 to me that Roland's outwayers are not utterly isolated \expndtw2 medieval crofters. They have books, telecommunica\-\expndtw-1 tions, power tools, motor vehicles, above all they have a \expndtw3 modern science-oriented education. Why \i should \i0 they \expndtw-1 turn superstitious? Something must be causing it." He \expndtw3 stopped. "I'd better not continue. My ideas go further \expndtw1 than this; but if they're correct, it's dangerous to speak \expndtw3 them aloud."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1963\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 348\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri48\sb211\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Mistherd's belly muscles tensed. There was danger for \expndtw0 fair, in that shearbill head. The Garland Bearer must be warned. For a minute he wondered about summoning \expndtw-1 Nagrim to kill these two. If the nicor jumped them fast, \expndtw2 their firearms might avail them naught. But no. They \expndtw-1 might have left word at home, or\emdash  He came back to his ears. The talk had changed course. Barbro was murmur\-\expndtw2 ing, "\emdash why you stayed on Roland."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The man smiled his gaunt smile. "Well, life on Beo\-wulf held no challenge for me. Heorot is\emdash or was; this \expndtw-4 was decades past, remember\emdash Heorot was densely popu\-\expndtw-1 lated, smoothly organized, boringly uniform. That was \expndtw4 partly due to the lowland frontier, a safety valve that \expndtw-2 bled off the dissatisfied. But I lack the carbon-dioxide \expndtw0 tolerance necessary to live healthily down there. An \expndtw-1 expedition was being readied to make a swing around a number of colony worlds, especially those which didn't have the equipment to keep in laser contact. You'll recall its announced purpose, to seek out new ideas in science, \expndtw-2 arts, sociology, philosophy, whatever might prove valu\-\expndtw0 able. I'm afraid they found little on Roland relevant to \expndtw-2 Beowulf. But I, who had wangled a berth, I saw opportu\-\expndtw3 nities for myself and decided to make my home here."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Were you a detective back there, too?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 "Yes, in the official police. We had a tradition of such \expndtw1 work in our family. Some of that may have come from the Cherokee side of it, if the name means anything to \expndtw0 you. However, we also claimed collateral descent from \expndtw-1 one of the first private inquiry agents on record, back on \expndtw4 Earth before spaceflight. Regardless of how true that \expndtw1 may be, I found him a useful model. You see, an arche-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li48\cf1\expndtw24\fs24 type-"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 The man broke off. Unease crossed his features. "Best we go to sleep," he said. "We've a long distance to cover \expndtw3 in the morning."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li58\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 She looked outward. "Here is no morning." \expndtw-2 They retired. Mistherd rose and cautiously flexed lim-\expndtw1 berness back into his muscles. Before returning to the \expndtw-1 Sister of Lyrth, he risked a glance through a pane in the \expndtw0 car. Bunks were made up, side by side, and the humans \expndtw4 lay in them. Yet the man had not touched her, though\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li667\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS      349\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs24 hers was a bonny body, and nothing that had passed \expndtw-2 between them suggested he meant to do so.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 Eldritch, humans. Cold and claylike. And they would \expndtw-4 overrun the beautiful wild world? Mistherd spat in dis\-\expndtw-5 gust. It must not happen. It would not happen. She who \expndtw-3 reigned had vowed that.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri24\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 The lands of William Irons were immense. But this \expndtw-3 was because a barony was required to support him, his \expndtw-6 kin and cattle, on native crops whose cultivation was still \expndtw-4 poorly understood. He raised some Terrestrial plants as well, by summerlight and in conservatories. However, these were a luxury. The true conquest of northern Arc-\expndtw-1 tica lay in yerba hay, in bathyrhiza wood, in pericoup \expndtw-6 and glycophyllon and eventually, when the market had \expndtw-1 expanded with population and industry, in chalcan-\expndtw-5 themum for city florists and pelts of cage-bred rover for city furriers.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 That was in a tomorrow Irons did not expect he would \expndtw0 live to see. Sherrinford wondered if the man really \expndtw-4 expected anyone ever would.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 The room was warm and bright. Cheerfulness crackled \expndtw-5 in the fireplace. Light from fluoropanels gleamed off \expndtw-6 hand-carven chests and chairs and tables, off colorful dra\-\expndtw-5 peries and shelved dishes. The outwayer sat solid in his \expndtw-6 highseat, stoutly clad, beard flowing down his chest. His \expndtw-1 wife and daughters brought coffee, whose fragrance \expndtw-5 joined the remnant odors of a hearty supper, to him, his \expndtw-3 guests, and his sons.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 But outside, wind hooted, lightning flared, thunder \expndtw-5 bawled, rain crashed on roof and walls and roared down \expndtw-4 to swirl among the courtyard cobblestones. Sheds and \expndtw-6 barns crouched against hugeness beyond. Trees groaned; \expndtw-4 and did a wicked undertone of laughter run beneath the \expndtw-6 lowing of a frightened cow? A burst of hailstones hit the \expndtw-5 tiles like knocking knuckles.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 You could feel how distant your neighbors were, Sher\-\expndtw-4 rinford thought. And nonetheless they were the people \expndtw-7 whom you saw oftenest, did daily business with by visi-\expndtw-5 phpne (when a solar storm didn't make gibberish of their \expndtw-3 voices and chaos of their faces) or in the flesh, partied \expndtw-4 with, gossipped and intrigued with, intermarried with; in\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1968\cf1\expndtw-6\fs23 350\expndtw0\tab\i Poul Anderson\cf0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri53\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 the end, they were the people who would bury you. The lights and machinery of the coastal towns were mon\-strously farther away.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li10\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 William Irons was a strong man. Yet when now he \expndtw0 spoke, fear was in his tone. "You'd truly go over Troll \expndtw-1 Scarp?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Do you mean Hanstein Palisades?" Sherrinford responded, more challenge than question.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "No outwayer calls it anything but Troll Scarp," Bar-\expndtw1 bro said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li19\ri43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 And how had a name like that been reborn, light-years \expndtw3 and centuries from Earth's dark ages?\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Hunters, trappers, prospectors\emdash rangers, you call \expndtw0 them\emdash travel in those mountains," Sherrinford declared.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "In certain parts," Irons said. "That's allowed, by a \expndtw1 pact once made 'tween a man and the Queen after he'd done well by a jack-o'-the-hill that a satan had hurt. \expndtw-2 Wherever the plumablanca grows, men may fare, if they \expndtw3 leave mangoods on the altar boulders in payment for \expndtw0 what they take out of the land. Elsewhere\emdash " one fist clenched on a chair arm and went slack again\emdash " 's not \expndtw3 wise to go."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "It's been done, hasn't it?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li29\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Oh, yes. And some came back all right, or so they \expndtw0 claimed, though I've heard they were never lucky after\-\expndtw1 ward. And some didn't, they vanished. And some who returned babbled of wonders and horrors, and stayed \expndtw-1 witlings the rest of their lives. Not for a long tune has \expndtw8 anybody been rash enough to break the pact and \expndtw1 overtread the bounds." Irons looked at Barbro almost \expndtw0 entreatingly. His woman and children stared likewise, \expndtw3 grown still. Wind hooted beyond the walls and rattled \expndtw5 the storm shutters. "Don't you."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I've reason to believe my son is there," she answered.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Yes, yes, you've told and I'm sorry. Maybe something \expndtw3 can be done. I don't know what, but I'd be glad to, oh, \expndtw-1 lay a double offering on Unvar's Barrow this midwinter, \expndtw1 and a prayer drawn in the turf by a flint knife. Maybe \expndtw0 they'll return him." Irons sighed. "They've not done such a thing in man's memory, though. And he could have a \expndtw1 worse lot. I've glimpsed them myself, speeding madcap\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li672\cf1\expndtw2\fs22 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS      351\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri43\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 through twilight. They seem happier than we are. Might \expndtw-2 be no kindness, sending your boy home again."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "Like in the Arvid song," said his wife.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 Irons nodded. "M-hm. Or others, come to think of it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "What's this?" Sherrinford asked. More sharply than \expndtw-6 before, he felt himself a stranger. He was a child of cities \expndtw-3 and technics, above all a child of the skeptical intelli\-\expndtw-2 gence. This family \i believed. \i0 It was disquieting to see \expndtw-3 more than a touch of their acceptance in Barbro's slow \expndtw-7 nod.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "We have the same ballad in Olga Ivanoff Land," she \expndtw0 told him, her voice less calm than the words. "It's one \expndtw-3 of the traditional ones, nobody knows who composed \expndtw0 them, that are sung to set the measure of a ring-dance \expndtw-1 in a meadow."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "I noticed a multilyre in your baggage, Mrs. Cullen," \expndtw-6 said the wife of Irons. She was obviously eager to get off \expndtw-3 the explosive topic of a venture in defiance of the Old Folk. A songfest could help. "Would you like to enter\-\expndtw0 tain us?"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Barbro shook her head, white around the nostrils. The \expndtw-3 oldest boy said quickly, rather importantly, "Well, sure, \expndtw0 I can, if our guests would like to hear."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "I'd enjoy that, thank you." Sherrinford leaned back \expndtw-5 in his seat and stroked his pipe. If this had not happened spontaneously, he would have guided the conversation \expndtw-3 toward a similar outcome.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 In the past he had had no incentive to study the folk\-\expndtw-1 lore of the outway, and not much chance to read the \expndtw-3 scanty references on it since Barbro brought him her \expndtw-6 trouble. Yet more and more he was becoming convinced \expndtw-5 he must get an understanding\emdash not an anthropological \expndtw-4 study; a feel from the inside out\emdash of the relationship \expndtw-5 between Roland's frontiersmen and those beings which \expndtw-3 haunted them.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 A bustling followed, rearrangement, settling down to \expndtw0 listen, coffee cups refilled and brandy offered on the \expndtw-4 side. The boy explained, "The last line is the chorus. Everybody join in, right?" Clearly he too hoped thus to \expndtw-6 bleed off some of the tension. Catharsis through music? \expndtw1 Sherrinford wondered, and added to himself: No; \expndtw-8 exorcism.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1968\cf1\expndtw-8\fs21 352\expndtw0\tab\expndtw1\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\sb211\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 A girl strummed a guitar. The boy sang, to a melody \expndtw1 which beat across the storm noise:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\ri960\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "It was the ranger Arvid \expndtw2 rode homeward through the hills \expndtw0 among the shadow shiverleafs, \expndtw-1 along the chiming hills. \expndtw-2\i The dance weaves under the firethorn.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\ri960\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "The night wind whispered around him \expndtw3 with scent of brok and rue. \expndtw2 Both moons rose high above him \expndtw0 and hills aflash with dew. \expndtw-2\i The dance weaves under the firethorn.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\ri960\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "And dreaming of that woman \expndtw2 who waited in the sun, he stopped, amazed by starlight, and so he was undone. \expndtw-2\i The dance weaves under the firethorn.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\ri960\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "For there beneath a barrow \expndtw3 that bulked athwart a moon, \expndtw1 the Outling folk were dancing in glass and golden shoon. \expndtw-2\i The dance weaves under the firethorn.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\ri960\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "The Outling folk were dancing \expndtw2 like water, wind and fire \expndtw-1 to frosty-ringing harpstrings, \expndtw3 and never did they tire. \expndtw-2\i The dance weaves under the firethorn.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\ri960\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "To Arvid came she striding from where she watched the dance, \expndtw4 the Queen of Air and Darkness, \expndtw1 with starlight in her glance. \expndtw-2\i The dance weaves under the firethorn.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li293\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "With starlight, love, and terror\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li288\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 in her immortal eye,\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li293\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 the Queen of Air and Darkness\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li662\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS      353\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri48\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "No!" Barbro leaped from her chair. Her fists were \expndtw-2 clenched and tears flogged her cheekbones. "You can't\emdash  \expndtw2 pretend that\emdash about the things that stole Jimmy!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri58\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 She fled from the chamber, upstairs to her guest \expndtw-2 bedroom.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri53\sb226\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 But she finished the song herself. That was about sev\-\expndtw3 enty hours later, camped in the steeps where rangers dared not fare.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 She and Sherrinford had not said much to the Irons \expndtw0 family after refusing repeated pleas to leave the forbid\-\expndtw6 den country alone. Nor had they exchanged many \expndtw3 remarks at first as they drove north. Slowly, however, \expndtw4 he began to draw her out about her own life. After a \expndtw3 while she almost forgot to mourn, in her remembering \expndtw-2 of home and old neighbors. Somehow this led to discov\-\expndtw0 eries\emdash that he beneath his professorial manner was a \expndtw4 gourmet and a lover of opera and appreciated her \expndtw-1 femaleness; that she could still laugh and find beauty in \expndtw-2 the wild land around her\emdash and she realized, half guiltily, \expndtw1 that life held more hopes than even the recovery of the son Tim gave her.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "I've convinced myself he's alive," the detective said. He scowled. "Frankly, it makes me regret having taken \expndtw-2 you along. I expected this would be only a fact-gathering \expndtw-1 trip, but it's turning out to be more. If we're dealing with \expndtw1 real creatures who stole him, they can do real harm. I \expndtw4 ought to turn back to the nearest garth and call for a plane to fetch you."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Like bottommost hell you will, mister," she said. \expndtw-4 "You need somebody who knows outway conditions; and \expndtw5 I'm a better shot than average."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs23 "M-m-m \expndtw43 ...\expndtw-5  it would involve considerable delay too, \expndtw3 wouldn't it? Besides the added distance, I can't put a \expndtw0 signal through to any airport before this current burst of \expndtw1 solar interference has calmed down."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li53\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 Next "night" he broke out his remaining equipment \expndtw2 and set it up. She recognized some of it, such as the \expndtw1 thermal detector. Other items were strange to her, cop\-ied to his order from the advanced apparatus of his \expndtw7 birthworld. He would tell her little about them. "I've\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1968\cf1\expndtw-12\fs22 354\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\sb211\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 explained my suspicion that the ones we're after have \expndtw1 telepathic capabilities," he said in apology.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri58\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Her eyes widened. "You mean it could be true, the \expndtw4 Queen and her people can read minds?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "That's part of the dread which surrounds their legend, \expndtw0 isn't it? Actually there's nothing spooky about the phe\-\expndtw-2 nomenon. It was studied and fairly well defined centuries \expndtw0 ago, on Earth. I daresay the facts are available in the \expndtw-1 scientific microfiles at Christmas Landing. You Roland-\expndtw0 ers have simply had no occasion to seek them out, any \expndtw3 more than you've yet had occasion to look up how to \expndtw1 build power beamcasters or spacecraft."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "Well, how does telepathy work, then?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Sherrinford recognized that her query asked for com\-fort as much as it did for facts, and spoke with deliberate \expndtw-2 dryness: "The organism generates extremely long-wave \expndtw-1 radiation which can, in principle, be modulated by the nervous system. In practice, the feebleness of the signals \expndtw4 and their low rate of information transmission make \expndtw-1 them elusive, hard to detect and measure. Our prehuman \expndtw3 ancestors went in for more reliable senses, like vision \expndtw-1 and hearing. What telepathic transceiving we do is mar\-\expndtw0 ginal at best. But explorers have found extraterrestrial \expndtw-1 species that got an evolutionary advantage from devel\-\expndtw3 oping the system further, in their particular environ\-\expndtw0 ments, I imagine such species could include one which \expndtw-1 gets comparatively little direct sunlight\emdash in fact, appears \expndtw0 to hide from broad day. It could even become so able in \expndtw6 this regard that, at short range, it can pick up man's \expndtw-2 weak emissions and make man's primitive sensitivities \expndtw2 resonate to its own strong sendings."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "That would account for a lot, wouldn't it?" Barbro \expndtw-1 asked faintly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li58\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I've now screened our car by a jamming field," Sher\-\expndtw2 rinford told her, "but it reaches only a few meters past \expndtw0 the chassis. Beyond, a scout of theirs might get a warn\-ing from your thoughts, if you knew precisely what I'm \expndtw1 trying to do. I have a well-trained subconscious which \expndtw4 sees to it that I think about this in French when I'm \expndtw3 outside. Communication has to be structured to be \expndtw12 intelligible, you see, and that's a different enough\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li677\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS      355\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri58\sb206\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 structure from English. But English is the only human \expndtw6 language on Roland, and surely the Old Folk have \expndtw8 learned it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri43\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 She nodded. He had told her his general plan, which \expndtw-1 was too obvious to conceal. The problem was to make \expndtw-2 contact with the aliens, if they existed. Hitherto they had \expndtw2 only revealed themselves, at rare intervals, to one or a \expndtw-2 few backwoodsmen at a time. An ability to generate hal\-\expndtw2 lucinations would help them in that. They would stay clear of any large, perhaps unmanageable expedition \expndtw-2 which might pass through their territory. But two people, braving all prohibitions, shouldn't look too formidable to \expndtw0 approach. And . . . this would be the first human team \expndtw-1 which not only worked on the assumption that the Out-\expndtw-2 lings were real but possessed the resources of modern, \expndtw-1 off-planet police technology.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Nothing happened at that camp. Sherrinford said he hadn't expected it would. The Old Folk seemed cautious this near to any settlement. In their own lands they must \expndtw2 be bolder.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 And by the following "night," the vehicle had gone \expndtw-1 well into yonder country. When Sherrinford stopped the \expndtw2 engine in a meadow and the car settled down, silence rolled in like a wave.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 They stepped out. She cooked a meal on the glower \expndtw0 while he gathered wood, that they might later cheer \expndtw-2 themselves with a campfire. Frequently he glanced at his \expndtw-1 wrist. It bore no watch\emdash instead, a radio-controlled dial, \expndtw3 to tell what the instruments in the bus might register.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri5\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw8\fs23 Who needed a watch here? Slow constellations \expndtw3 wheeled beyond glimmering aurora. The moon Alde \expndtw2 stood above a snowpeak, turning it argent, though this \expndtw1 place lay at a goodly height. The rest of the mountains \expndtw8 were hidden by the forest that crowded around. Its \expndtw2 trees were mostly shiverleaf and feathery white plu-\expndtw6 mablanca, ghostly amid their shadows. A few fire-\expndtw10 thorns glowed, clustered dim lanterns, and the \expndtw4 underbrush was heavy and smelled sweet. You could \expndtw0 see surprisingly far through the blue dusk. Somewhere \expndtw3 nearby a brook sang and a bird fluted.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li278\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw12\fs23 "Lovely here," Sherrinford said. They had risen\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1968\cf1\expndtw-7\fs21 356\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb216\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 from their supper and not yet sat down or kindled their \expndtw0 fire.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri53\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "But strange," Barbro answered as low. "I wonder if \expndtw0 it's really meant for us. If we can really hope to possess \expndtw7 it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li14\ri62\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 His pipestem gestured at the stars. "Man's gone to \expndtw2 stranger places than this."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Has he? I \expndtw53 ...\expndtw2  oh, I suppose it's just something left \expndtw-3 over from my outway childhood, but do you know, when \expndtw0 I'm under them I can't think of the stars as balls of gas, \expndtw-2 whose energies have been measured, whose planets have \expndtw2 been walked on by prosaic feet. No, they're small and \expndtw0 cold and magical; our lives are bound to them; after we \expndtw-1 die, they whisper to us in our graves." Barbro glanced \expndtw3 downward. "I realize that's nonsense."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 She could see in the twilight how his face grew tight. \expndtw2 "Not at all," he said. "Emotionally, physics may be a \expndtw-2 worse nonsense. And in the end, you know, after a suffi\-\expndtw2 cient number of generations, thought follows feeling. \expndtw-1 Man is not at heart rational. He could stop believing the \expndtw2 stories of science if those no longer felt right."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri34\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 He paused. "That ballad which didn't get finished in \expndtw6 the house," he said, not looking at her. "Why did it \expndtw1 affect you so?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li34\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "I was overwrought. I couldn't stand hearing \i them. \expndtw-1\i0 well, praised. Or that's how it seemed. My apologies for \expndtw3 the fuss."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "I gather the ballad is typical of a large class."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\ri19\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Well, I never thought to add them up. Cultural \expndtw0 anthropology is something we don't have time for on Roland, or more likely it hasn't occurred to us, with \expndtw-1 everything else there is to do. But\emdash now you mention it, \expndtw2 yes, I'm surprised at how many songs and stories have \expndtw4 the Arvid motif in them."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Could you bear to recite it for me?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li58\ri10\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 She mustered the will to laugh. "Why, I can do better \expndtw-2 than that if you want. Let me get my multilyre and I'll \expndtw3 perform."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li62\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 She omitted the hypnotic chorus line, though, when \expndtw2 the notes rang out, except at the end. He watched her \expndtw3 where she stood against moon and aurora.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li461\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS      357\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri1382\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "\emdash the Queen of Air and Darkness \expndtw0 cried softly under sky:\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri1382\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 " 'Light down, you ranger Arvid, and join the Outling folk. \expndtw4 You need no more be human, \expndtw1 which is a heavy yoke.'\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li14\ri1843\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "He dared to give her answer: \expndtw4 'I may do naught but run. \expndtw0 A maiden waits me, dreaming \expndtw3 in lands beneath the sun.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li14\ri1382\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs23 " 'And likewise wait me comrades \expndtw3 And tasks I would not shirk, \expndtw2 for what is Ranger Arvid \expndtw1 if he lays down his work?\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li24\ri1382\sb221\sl-216\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 " 'So wreak your spells, you Outling, \expndtw3 and cast your wrath on me. \expndtw1 Though maybe you can slay me, \expndtw4 you'll not make me unfree.'\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li34\ri1382\sb226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "The Queen of Air and Darkness stood wrapped about with fear \expndtw1 and northlight-flares and beauty \expndtw5 he dared not look too near.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li38\ri1382\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Until she laughed like harpsong \expndtw2 and said to him in scorn: \expndtw4 'I do not need a magic \expndtw2 to make you always mourn.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li43\ri1382\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 " 'I send you home with nothing \expndtw0 except your memory of moonlight, Outling music, \expndtw2 night breezes, dew, and me.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li53\ri1382\sb226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 " 'And that will run behind you, a shadow on the sun, \expndtw2 and that will lie beside you \expndtw1 when every day is done.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1968\cf1\expndtw-12\fs22 358\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li216\ri1382\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 " 'In work and play and friendship \expndtw1 your grief will strike you dumb for thinking what you are\emdash and\emdash  what you might have become.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\ri1843\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 " 'Your dull and foolish woman \expndtw2 treat kindly as you can. \expndtw3 Go home now, Ranger Arvid, \expndtw5 set free to be a man!'\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\ri922\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "In flickering and laughter the Outling folk were gone. He stood alone by moonlight and wept until the dawn. \expndtw0\i The dance weaves under the firethorn."\cf0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri38\sb442\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 She laid the lyre aside. A wind rustled leaves. After a \expndtw1 long quietness Sherrinford said, "And tales of this kind \expndtw3 are part of everyone's life in the outway?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw10\fs23 "Well, you could put it thus," Barbro replied. \expndtw-1 "Though they're not all full of supernatural doings. Some \expndtw3 are about love or heroism. Traditional themes."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "I don't think your particular tradition has arisen of \expndtw5 itself." His tone was bleak. "In fact, I think many of \expndtw0 your songs and stories were not composed by humans."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li53\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 He snapped his lips shut and would say no more on the subject. They went early to bed.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Hours later, an alarm roused them.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 The buzzing was soft, but it brought them instantly \expndtw-2 alert. They slept in gripsuits, to be prepared for emergen\-cies. Sky-glow lit them through the canopy. Sherrinford swung out of his bunk, slipped shoes on feet and clipped \expndtw3 gun holster to belt. "Stay inside," he commanded.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li278\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "What's here?" Her pulse thudded.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li72\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 He squinted at the dials of his instruments and checked \expndtw-1 them against the luminous telltale on his wrist. "Three \expndtw0 animals," he counted. "Not wild ones happening by. A \expndtw-4 large one, homeothermic, to judge from the infrared, hold\-\expndtw-1 ing still a short ways off. Another . . . hm, low tempera\-\expndtw3 ture, diffuse and unstable emission, as if it were more \expndtw10 like a . .a swarm of cells coordinated somehow .\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li672\cf1\expndtw2\fs22 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS      359\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri58\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 pheromonally? . . . hovering, also at a distance. But the \expndtw-6 third's practically next to us, moving around in the brush; \expndtw0 and that pattern looks human."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 She saw him quiver with eagerness, no longer seeming \expndtw1 a professor. "I'm going to try to make a capture," he \expndtw-6 said. "When we have a subject for interrogation\emdash  Stand ready to let me back in again fast. But don't risk yourself, \expndtw-2 whatever happens. And keep this cocked." He handed \expndtw-3 her a loaded big-game rifle.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 His tall frame poised by the door, opened it a crack. \expndtw-5 Air blew in, cool, damp, full of fragrances and murmur-\expndtw-3 ings. The moon Oliver was now also aloft, the radiance \expndtw-2 of both unreally brilliant, and the aurora seethed in \expndtw-5 whiteness and ice-blue.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Sherrinford peered afresh at his telltale. It must indi\-\expndtw-5 cate the directions of the watchers, among those dappled \expndtw0 leaves. Abruptly he sprang put. He sprinted past the \expndtw-5 ashes of the campfire and vanished under trees. Barbro's \expndtw0 hand strained on the butt of her weapon.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 Racket exploded. Two in combat burst onto the \expndtw-3 meadow. Sherrinford had clapped a grip on a smaller human figure. She could make out by streaming silver \expndtw-5 and rainbow flicker mat the other was nude, male, long\-\expndtw-4 haired, lithe, and young. He fought demoniacally, seek\-\expndtw-6 ing to use teeth and feet and raking nails, and meanwhile \expndtw-1 he ululated like a satan.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li38\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 The identification shot through her: A changeling, sto\-\expndtw-4 len in babyhood and raised by the Old Folk. This crea\-\expndtw-3 ture was what they would make Jimmy into.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "Ha!" Sherrinford forced his opponent around and \expndtw-3 drove stiffened fingers into the solar plexus. The boy \expndtw-6 gasped and sagged. Sherrinford manhandled him toward \expndtw-2 the car.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 Out from the woods came a giant. It might itself have \expndtw-5 been a tree, black and rugose, bearing four great gnarly \expndtw-1 boughs; but earth quivered and boomed beneath its \expndtw-3 legroots, and its hoarse bellowing filled sky and skulls.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Barbro shrieked. Sherrinford whirled. He yanked out \expndtw-5 his pistol, fired and fired, flat whipcracks through the \expndtw1 halflight. His free arm kept a lock on the youth. The \expndtw-5 troll shape lurched under those blows. It recovered and came on, more slowly, more carefully, circling around to\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1963\cf1\expndtw-12\fs22 360\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri43\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 cut him off from the bus. He couldn't move fast enough to evade unless he released his prisoner\emdash who was his \expndtw-4 sole possible guide to Jimmy\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 Barbro leaped forth. "Don't!" Sherrinford shouted. \expndtw-4 "For God's sake, stay inside!" The monster rumbled and \expndtw-6 made snatching motions at her. She pulled trigger. Recoil \expndtw-3 slammed her in the shoulder. The colossus rocked and \expndtw-4 fell. Somehow it got its feet back and lumbered toward \expndtw-3 her. She retreated. Again she shot and again. The crea\-\expndtw-6 ture snarled. Blood began to drip from it and gleam oilily \expndtw0 amidst dewdrops. It turned and went off, breaking \expndtw3 branches, into the darkness that laired beneath the \expndtw-10 woods.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "Get to shelter!" Sherrinford yelled. "You're out of \expndtw-2 the jammer field!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 A mistiness drifted by overhead. She barely glimpsed it before she saw the new shape at the meadow edge. \expndtw-1 "Jimmy!" tore from her.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 "Mother." He held out his arms. Moonlight coursed in his tears. She dropped her weapon and ran to him.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li34\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-7\fs24 Sherrinford plunged in pursuit. Jimmy flitted away into \expndtw-5 the brush. Barbro crashed after, through clawing twigs. \expndtw-3 Then she was seized and borne away.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri14\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 Standing over his captive, Sherrinford strengthened the \expndtw-5 fluoro output until vision of the wilderness was blocked off from within the bus. The boy squirmed beneath that \expndtw-6 colorless glare.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "You are going to talk," the man said. Despite the haggardness in his features, he spoke quietly.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-7\fs24 The boy glowered through tangled locks. A bruise was \expndtw-6 purpling on his jaw. He'd almost recovered ability to flee while Sherrinford chased and lost the woman. Returning, \expndtw-2 the detective had barely caught him. Tune was lacking \expndtw-3 to be gentle, when Outling reinforcements might arrive \expndtw-5 at any moment. Sherrinford had knocked him out and \expndtw-6 dragged him inside. Now he sat lashed into a swivel seat.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 He spat. "Talk to you, man-clod?" But sweat stood \expndtw-6 on his skin and his eyes flickered unceasingly around the \expndtw-5 metal which caged him.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs24 "Give me a name to call you by."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li278\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs24 "And have you work a spell on me?"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li672\cf1\expndtw1\fs22 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS      361\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri53\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "Mine's Eric. If you don't give me another choice, I'll \expndtw0 have to call you . . . m-m-m . . . Wuddikins,"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "What?" However eldritch, the bound one remained \expndtw-5 a human adolescent. "Mistherd, then." The lilting accent \expndtw-1 of his English somehow emphasized its sullenness. \expndtw-4 "That's not the sound, only what it means. Anyway, it's \expndtw-2 my spoken name, naught else."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "Ah, you keep a secret name you consider to be real?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "She does. I don't know myself what it is. She knows \expndtw-2 the real names of everybody."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 Sherrinford raised his brows. "She?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li14\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 "Who reigns. May she forgive me, I can't make the \expndtw-6 reverent sign when my arms are tied. Some invaders call \expndtw1 her the Queen of Air and Darkness."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "So." Sherrinford got pipe and tobacco. He let silence \expndtw-1 wax while he started the fire. At length he said:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "I'll confess the Old Folk took me by surprise. I didn't \expndtw-6 expect so formidable a member of your gang. Everything \expndtw0 I could learn had seemed to show they work on my \expndtw-5 race\emdash and yours, lad\emdash by stealth, trickery, and illusion."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Mistherd jerked a truculent nod. "She created the first nicors not long ago. Don't think she has naught but daz-\expndtw-1 zlements at her beck."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "I don't. However, a steel-jacketed bullet works pretty \expndtw0 well too, doesn't it?"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Sherrinford talked on, softly, mostly to himself: "I do \expndtw-2 still believe the, ah, nicors\emdash all your half-humanlike \expndtw-3 breeds\emdash are intended in the main to be seen, not used. \expndtw-4 The power of projecting mirages must surely be quite \expndtw-5 limited in range and scope as well as in the number of \expndtw-6 individuals who possess it. Otherwise she wouldn't have \expndtw-5 needed to work as slowly and craftily as she has. Even \expndtw-9 outside our mind-shield, Barbro\emdash my companion\emdash could \expndtw-5 have resisted, could have remained aware that whatever \expndtw-4 she saw was unreal \expndtw38 ...\expndtw-4  if she'd been less shaken, less \expndtw-2 frantic, less driven by need."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 Sherrinford wreathed his head in smoke. "Never mind \expndtw-4 what I experienced," he said. "It couldn't have been the same as for her. I think the command was simply given \expndtw-2 us, 'You will see what you most desire in the world, \expndtw-4 running away from you into the forest.' Of course, she \expndtw-2 didn't travel many meters before the nicor waylaid her.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1963\cf1\expndtw-7\fs23 362\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri48\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 I'd no hope of trailing them; I'm no Arctican woodsman, \expndtw4 and besides, it'd have been too easy to ambush me. I \expndtw-1 came back to you." Grimly: "You're my link to your overlady."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "You think I'll guide you to Starhaven or Carheddin? \expndtw2 Try making me, clod-man."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li331\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 I want to bargain."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "I s'pect you intend more'n that." Mistherd's answer \expndtw0 held surprising shrewdness. "What'll you tell after you \expndtw2 come home?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Yes, that does pose a problem, doesn't it? Barbro \expndtw3 Cullen and I are not terrified outwayers. We're of the \expndtw-1 city. We brought recording instruments. We'd be the first \expndtw4 of our kind to report an encounter with the Old Folk, \expndtw-2 and that report would be detailed and plausible. It would \expndtw2 produce action."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "So you see I'm not afraid to die," Mistherd declared, \expndtw1 though his lips trembled a bit. "If I let you come in and \expndtw0 do your man-things to my people, I'd have naught left \expndtw1 worth living for."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li24\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "Have no immediate fears," Sherrinford said. "You're merely bait." He sat down and regarded the boy through \expndtw-4 a visor of calm. (Within, it wept in him: \i Barbro, Barbro!) \expndtw-1\i0 "Consider. Your Queen can't very well let me go back, \expndtw0 bringing my prisoner and telling about hers. She has to \expndtw11 stop that somehow. I could try fighting my way \expndtw1 through\emdash this car is better armed than you know\emdash but \expndtw4 that wouldn't free anybody. Instead, I'm staying put. \expndtw8 New forces of hers will get here as fast as they can. \expndtw-2 I assume they won't blindly throw themselves against a \expndtw3 machine gun, a howitzer, a fulgurator. They'll parley \expndtw1 first, whether their intentions are honest or not. Thus I \expndtw5 make the contact I'm after."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "What d'you plan?" The mumble held anguish.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li48\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw7\fs23 "First, this, as a sort of invitation." Sherrinford \expndtw0 reached out to flick a switch. "There. I've lowered my \expndtw-2 shield against mind-reading and shape-casting. I daresay \expndtw0 the leaders, at least, will be able to sense that it's gone. \expndtw1 That should give them confidence."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "And next?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "Why, next we wait. Would you like something to eat \expndtw4 or drink?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li667\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS      363\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\ri62\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 During the time which followed, Sherrinford tried to \expndtw-7 jolly Mistherd along, find out something of his life. What \expndtw-5 answers he got were curt. He dimmed the interior lights \expndtw-4 and settled down to peer outward. That was a long few \expndtw-7 hours.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li5\ri67\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 They ended at a shout of gladness, half a sob, from \expndtw-4 the boy. Out of the woods came a band of the Old Folk.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 Some of them stood forth more clearly than moons \expndtw-4 and stars and northlights should have caused. He in the \expndtw-1 van rode a white crownbuck whose horns were gar\-\expndtw-5 landed. His form was manlike but unearthly beautiful, \expndtw-4 silver-blond hair falling from beneath the antlered hel\-met, around the proud cold face. The cloak fluttered off \expndtw-6 his back like living wings. His frost-colored mail rang as \expndtw-2 he fared.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 Behind him, to right and left, rode two who bore \expndtw-4 swords whereon small flames gleamed and flickered. \expndtw-6 Above, a flying flock laughed and trilled and tumbled in \expndtw-4 the breezes. Near them drifted a half-transparent misti\-ness. Those others who passed among trees after their chieftain were harder to make out. But they moved in \expndtw-5 quicksilver grace, and as it were to a sound of harps and trumpets.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "Lord Luighaid." Glory overflowed in Mistherd's \expndtw-3 tone. "Her master Knower\emdash himself."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li38\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 Sherrinford had never done a harder thing than to sit \expndtw-4 at the main control panel, finger near the button of the \expndtw0 shield generator, and not touch it. He rolled down a \expndtw-2 section of canopy to let voices travel. A gust of wind \expndtw-4 struck him in the face, bearing odors of the roses in his mother's garden. At his back, in the main body of the \expndtw-6 vehicle, Mistherd strained against his bonds till he could \expndtw-3 see the incoming troop.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li53\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 "Call to them," Sherrinford said. "Ask if they will talk \expndtw-2 with me."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 Unknown, flutingly sweet words flew back and forth. \expndtw-5 "Yes," the boy interpreted. "He will, the Lord Luighaid. \expndtw0 But I can tell you, you'll never be let go. Don't fight \expndtw-6 them. Yield. Come away. You don't know what 'tis to be \expndtw-5 alive till you've dwelt in Carheddin under the mountain."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 The Outlings drew nigh.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1968\cf1\expndtw-7\fs24 364\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri48\sb202\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 Jimmy glimmered and was gone. Barbro lay in strong \expndtw-2 arms against a broad breast, and felt the horse move \expndtw2 beneath her. It had to be a horse, though only a few \expndtw-4 were kept any longer on the steadings, and they for spe\-cial uses or love. She could feel the rippling beneath its hide, hear a rush of parted leafage and the thud when a hoof struck stone; warmth and living scent welled up \expndtw-1 around her through the darkness.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li19\ri48\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 He who carried her said mildly, "Don't be afraid, dar\-ling. It was a vision. But he's waiting for us and we're \expndtw-1 bound for him."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li19\ri38\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 She was aware in a vague way that she ought to feel \expndtw-3 terror or despair or something. But her memories lay \expndtw-1 behind her\emdash she wasn't sure just how she had come to \expndtw-6 be here\emdash she was borne along in a knowledge of being \expndtw-1 loved. At peace, at peace, rest in the calm expectation \expndtw3 of joy. . . .\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri29\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 After a while the forest opened. They crossed a lea \expndtw-5 where boulders stood gray-white under the moons, their \expndtw-6 shadows shifting in the dim hues which the aurora threw \expndtw-4 across them. Flitteries danced, tiny comets, above the \expndtw-6 flowers between. Ahead gleamed a peak whose top was \expndtw-5 crowned in clouds.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li34\ri24\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Barbro's eyes happened to be turned forward. She saw \expndtw-3 the horse's head and thought, with quiet surprise: Why, \expndtw-2 this is Sambo, who was mine when I was a girl. She \expndtw-4 looked upward at the man. He wore a black tunic and a \expndtw-6 cowled cape, which made his face hard to see. She could \expndtw0 not cry aloud, here. "Tim," she whispered.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\fs24 "Yes, Barbro."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-226\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "I buried you\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\ri14\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 His smile was endlessly tender. "Did you think we're \expndtw1 no more than what's laid back into the ground? Poor \expndtw-3 torn sweetheart. She who's called us is the All Healer. \expndtw0 Now rest and dream."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\sl-226\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 "Dream," she said, and for a space she struggled to \expndtw-6 rouse herself. But the effort was weak. Why should she \expndtw-4 believe ashen tales about . . . atoms and energies, noth\-\expndtw-1 ing else to fill a gape of emptiness . . . tales she could \expndtw-5 not bring to mind . . . when Tim and the horse her father \expndtw0 gave her carried her on to Jimmy? Had the other thing\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li672\cf1\fs22 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS       365\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 not been the evil dream, and this her first drowsy awak\-ening from it?\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li10\ri62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 As if he heard her thoughts, he murmured, "They have \expndtw3 a song in Outling lands. The Song of the men:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs23 "The world sails\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 to an unseen wind.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Light swirls by the bows.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li221\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 The wake is night.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 But the Dwellers have no such sadness."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "I don't understand," she said.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 He nodded. "There's much you'll have to understand, \expndtw2 darling, and I can't see you again until you've learned \expndtw3 those truths. But meanwhile you'll be with our son."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 She tried to lift her head and kiss him. He held her \expndtw3 down. "Not yet," he said. "You've not been received among the Queen's people. I shouldn't have come for \expndtw-2 you, except that she was too merciful to forbid. Lie back, \expndtw2 lie back."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Time blew past. The horse galloped tireless, never \expndtw-1 stumbling, up the mountain. Once she glimpsed a troop \expndtw1 riding down it and thought they were bound for a last \expndtw3 weird battle in the west against . . . who? . . . one who \expndtw-2 lay cased in iron and sorrow\emdash  Later she would ask her\-\expndtw1 self the name of him who had brought her into the land \expndtw3 of the Old Truth.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li43\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Finally spires lifted splendid among the stars, which \expndtw-3 are small and magical and whose whisperings comfort us \expndtw2 after we are dead. They rode into a courtyard where \expndtw-3 candles burned unwavering, fountains splashed and birds \expndtw4 sang. The air bore fragrance of brok and pericoup, of \expndtw0 rue and roses; for not everything that man brought was \expndtw-2 horrible. The Dwellers waited in beauty to welcome her. \expndtw-1 Beyond their stateliness, pooks cavorted through the gloaming; among the trees darted children; merriment \expndtw0 caroled across music more solemn.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li58\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 "We have come\emdash " Tim's voice was suddenly, inexpli\-\expndtw-1 cably a croak. Barbro was not sure how he dismounted, bearing her. She stood before him and saw him sway on \expndtw0 his feet.\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li274\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Fear caught her. "Are you well?" She seized both his\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1968\cf1\expndtw-6\fs23 366\expndtw0\tab\expndtw1\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri62\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 hands. They felt cold and rough. Where had Sambo \expndtw6 gone? Her eyes searched beneath the cowl. In this \expndtw0 brighter illumination, she ought to have seen her man's \expndtw7 face clearly. But it was blurred, it kept changing. \expndtw4 "What's wrong, oh, what's happened?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li14\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 He smiled. Was that the smile she had cherished? She \expndtw0 couldn't completely remember. "I, I must go," he stam\-\expndtw-1 mered, so low she could scarcely hear. "Our time is not \expndtw0 ready." He drew free of her grasp and leaned on a robed \expndtw-2 form which had appeared at his side. A haziness swirled \expndtw6 over both their heads. "Don't watch me go \expndtw59 ...\expndtw6  back \expndtw3 into the earth," he pleaded. "That's death for you. Till our time returns\emdash  There, our son!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 She had to fling her gaze around. Kneeling, she spread \expndtw-2 wide her arms. Jimmy struck her like a warm, solid can-\expndtw1 nonball. She rumpled his hair, she kissed the hollow of \expndtw-2 his neck, she laughed and wept and babbled foolishness; \expndtw3 and this was no ghost, no memory that had stolen off \expndtw0 when she wasn't looking. Now and again, as she turned \expndtw-1 her attention to yet another hurt which might have come \expndtw-2 upon him\emdash hunger, sickness, fear\emdash and found none, she \expndtw3 would glimpse their surroundings. The gardens were \expndtw4 gone. It didn't matter.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "I misted you so, Mother. Stay?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "I'll take you home, dearest."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Stay. Here's fun. I'll show. But you stay."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 A sighing went through the twilight. Barbro rose. \expndtw1 Jimmy clung to her hand. They confronted the Queen.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li48\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Very tall she was in her robes woven of northlights, \expndtw-2 and her starry crown and her garlands of kiss-me-never. Her countenance recalled Aphrodite of Milos, whose pic\-\expndtw3 ture Barbro had often seen in the realms of men, save \expndtw0 that the Queen's was more fair, and more majesty dwelt upon it and in the night-blue eyes. Around her the gar\-dens woke to new reality, the court of the Dwellers and \expndtw-1 the heaven-climbing spires.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li67\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Be welcome," she spoke, her speaking a song, \expndtw3 "forever."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li62\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Against the awe of her, Barbro said, "Moonmother, let us go home."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li283\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "That may not be."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li278\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "To our world, little and beloved," Barbro dreamed\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li667\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS      367\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 she begged, "which we build for ourselves and cherish for our children."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li5\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "To prison days, angry nights, works that crumble in \expndtw0 the fingers, loves that turn to rot or stone or driftweed, \expndtw-2 loss, grief, and the only sureness that of the final nothing\-ness. No. You too, Wanderfoot who is to be, will jubilate \expndtw0 when the banners of the Outworld come flying into the \expndtw-1 last of the cities and man is made wholly alive. Now go \expndtw2 with those who will teach you."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi202\li19\ri48\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 The Queen of Air and Darkness lifted an arm in sum\-\expndtw4 mons. It halted, and none came to answer.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 For over the fountains and melodies lifted a gruesome \expndtw-2 growling. Fires leaped, thunders crashed. Her hosts scat\-\expndtw-1 tered screaming before the steel thing which boomed up the mountainside. The pooks were gone in a whirl of \expndtw1 frightened wings. The nicors flung their bodies against \expndtw5 the unalive invader and were consumed, until their \expndtw4 Mother cried to them to retreat.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li29\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs23 Barbro cast Jimmy down and herself over him. Towers \expndtw2 wavered and smoked away. The mountain stood bare \expndtw-1 under icy moons, save for rocks, crags, and farther off a glacier in whose depths the auroral light pulsed blue. A \expndtw-2 cave mouth darkened a cliff. Thither folk streamed, seek\-\expndtw2 ing refuge underground. Some were human of blood, \expndtw0 some grotesques like the pooks and nicors and wraiths; \expndtw-2 but most were lean, scaly, long-tailed, long-beaked, not \expndtw1 remotely men or Outlings.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 For an instant, even as Jimmy wailed at her breast\emdash  \expndtw2 perhaps as much because the enchantment had been \expndtw1 wrecked as because he was afraid\emdash Barbro pitied the \expndtw0 Queen who stood alone in her nakedness. Then that one \expndtw3 also had fled, and Barbro's world shivered apart.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 The guns fell silent, the vehicle whirred to a halt. From \expndtw-3 it sprang a boy who called wildly, "Shadow-of-a-Dream, \expndtw0 where are you? It's me, Mistherd, oh, come, come!"\emdash  \expndtw-1 before he remembered that the language they had been \expndtw1 raised in was not man's. He shouted in that until a girl \expndtw0 crept out of a thicket where she had hidden. They stared at each other through dust, smoke, and moonglow. She \expndtw4 ran to him.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li278\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 A new voice barked from the car, "Barbro, hurry!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1968\cf1\expndtw-10\fs21 368\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri34\sb221\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs24 Christmas Landing knew day: short at this time of \expndtw-2 year, but sunlight, blue skies, white clouds, glittering \expndtw-3 water, salt breezes in busy streets, and the sane disorder of Eric Sherrinford's living room.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li5\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 He crossed and uncrossed his legs where he sat, puffed \expndtw2 on his pipe as if to make a veil, and said, "Are you \expndtw-2 certain you're recovered? You mustn't risk overstrain."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs24 "I'm fine," Barbro Cullen replied, though her tone \expndtw-4 was flat. "Still tired, yes, and showing it, no doubt. One \expndtw-3 doesn't go through such an experience and bounce back \expndtw2 in a week. But I'm up and about. And to be frank, I \expndtw-2 must know what's happened, what's going on, before I \expndtw-1 can settle down to regain my full strength. Not a word \expndtw-3 of news anywhere."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\fs24 "Have you spoken to others about the matter?"\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 "No. I've simply told visitors I was too exhausted to \expndtw-5 talk. Not much of a lie. I assumed there's a reason for censorship."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 Sherrinford looked relieved. "Good girl. It's at my \expndtw-7 urging. You can imagine the sensation when this is made \expndtw-1 public. The authorities agreed they need time to study \expndtw0 the facts, think and debate in a calm atmosphere, have \expndtw-4 a decent policy ready to offer voters who're bound to \expndtw-3 become rather hysterical at first." His mouth quirked \expndtw-6 slightly upward. "Furthermore, your nerves and Jimmy's \expndtw-1 get their chance to heal before the journalistic storm breaks over you. How is he?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "Quite well. He continues pestering me for leave to\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\keepn\sl381\slmult0\dn4\fs46 g\par
\pard\cbpat2\li158\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\up0\fs24 o play with his friends in the Wonderful Place. But at \expndtw-2 is age, he'll recover\emdash he'll forget."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "He may meet them later anyhow."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "What? We didn't\emdash " Barbro shifted in her chair. \expndtw-4 "I've forgotten too. I hardly recall a thing from our last \expndtw-2 hours. Did you bring back any kidnapped humans?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-6\fs24 "No. The shock was savage, as was, without throwing \expndtw-7 them straight into an \expndtw41 ...\expndtw-7  an institution. Mistherd, who's \expndtw-6 basically a sensible young fellow, assured me they'd get \expndtw-5 along, at any rate as regards survival necessities, till \expndtw-4 arrangements can be made." Sherrinford hesitated. "I'm \expndtw-1 not sure what the arrangements will be. Nobody is, at \expndtw-5 our present stage. But obviously they include those peo\-\expndtw-2 ple\emdash or many of them, especially those who aren't full-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li672\cf1\expndtw-2\fs22 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS      369\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri58\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 grown\emdash rejoining the human race. Though they may \expndtw-2 never feel at home in civilization. Perhaps in a way that's \expndtw-3 best, since we will need some kind of mutually acceptable \expndtw1 liaison with the Dwellers."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li10\ri53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 His impersonality soothed them both. Barbro became \expndtw4 able to say, "Was I too big a fool? I do remember how I yowled and beat my head on the floor."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Why, no." He considered the big woman and her \expndtw0 pride for a few seconds before he rose, walked over and \expndtw4 laid a hand on her shoulder. "You'd been lured and \expndtw-1 trapped by a skillful play on your deepest instincts, at a moment of sheer nightmare. Afterward, as that wounded monster carried you off, evidently another type of being came along, one that could saturate you with close-range neuropsychic forces. On top of this, my arrival, the sud\-\expndtw-2 den brutal abolishment of every hallucination, must have \expndtw3 been shattering. No wonder if you cried out in pain. \expndtw-3 Before you did, you competently got Jimmy and yourself \expndtw4 into the bus, and you never interfered with me."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li245\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "What did you do?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 "Why, I drove off as fast as possible. After several \expndtw-1 hours, the atmospherics let up sufficiently for me to call Portolondon and insist on an emergency airlift. Not that \expndtw1 that was vital. What chance had the enemy to stop us? \expndtw0 They didn't even try. But quick transportation was cer\-tainly helpful."\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri19\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 "I figured that's what must have gone on." Barbro \expndtw-1 caught his glance. "No, what I meant was, how did you \expndtw2 find us in the backlands?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li48\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Sherrinford moved a little off from her. "My prisoner was my guide. I don't think I actually killed any of the \expndtw2 Dwellers who'd come to deal with me. I hope not. The \expndtw-2 car simply broke through them, after a couple of warning \expndtw5 shots, and afterward outpaced them. Steel and fuel \expndtw3 against flesh wasn't really fair. At the cave entrance, I did have to shoot down a few of those troll creatures. \expndtw6 I'm not proud of it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li62\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 He stood silent. Presently: "But you were a captive," he said. "I couldn't be sure what they might do to you, \expndtw5 who had first claim on me." After another pause: "I \expndtw3 don't look for any more violence."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li283\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw6\fs23 "How did you make \expndtw45 ...\expndtw6  the boy . . . cooperate?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1963\cf1\expndtw-12\fs22 370\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li5\ri29\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 Sherrinford paced from her, to the window, where he \expndtw-3 stood staring out at the Boreal Ocean. "I turned off the \expndtw-4 mind shield," he said. "I let their band get close, in full \expndtw-1 splendor of illusion. Then I turned the shield back on \expndtw-4 and we both saw them in their true shapes. As we went northward I explained to Mistherd how he and his kind \expndtw-6 had been hoodwinked, used, made to live in a world that \expndtw-5 was never really there. I asked him if he wanted himself \expndtw-4 and whoever he cared about to go on till they died as \expndtw-5 domestic animals\emdash yes, running in limited freedom on solid hills, but always called back to the dream-kennel." \expndtw-4 His pipe fumed furiously. "May I never see such bitter\-\expndtw-2 ness again. He had been taught to believe he was free."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Quiet returned, above the hectic traffic. Charlemagne \expndtw-1 drew nearer to setting; already the east darkened.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li235\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 Finally Barbro asked, "Do you know why?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "Why children were taken and raised like that? Partly because it was in the pattern the Dwellers were creating; \expndtw-3 partly in order to study and experiment on members of \expndtw-5 our species\emdash minds, that is, not bodies; partly because \expndtw-3 humans have special strengths which are helpful, like \expndtw-2 being able to endure full daylight."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li254\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 "But what was the final purpose of it all?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs24 Sherrinford paced the floor. "Well," he said, "of \expndtw4 course the ultimate motives of the aborigines are \expndtw-5 obscure. We can't do more than guess at how they think, \expndtw-4 let alone how they feel. But our ideas do seem to fit the data.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs24 "Why did they hide from man? I suspect they, or \expndtw-2 rather their ancestors\emdash for they aren't glittering elves, \expndtw-5 you know; they're mortal and fallible too\emdash I suspect the natives were only being cautious at first, more cautious than human primitives, though certain of those on Earth \expndtw-7 were also slow to reveal themselves to strangers. Spying, \expndtw-6 mentally eavesdropping, Roland's Dwellers must have picked up enough language to get some idea of how dif\-\expndtw-5 ferent man was from them, and how powerful; and they \expndtw-6 gathered that more ships would be arriving, bringing set-\expndtw-5 tiers. It didn't occur to them that they might be conceded \expndtw-3 the right to keep their lands. Perhaps they're still more \expndtw-4 fiercely territorial than us. They determined to fight, in \expndtw0 their own way. I daresay, once we begin to get insight\cf0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li667\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS      371\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 into that mentality, our psychological science will go \expndtw1 through its Copernican revolution."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\ri43\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 Enthusiasm kindled in him. "That's not the sole thing \expndtw-2 we'll learn, either," he went on. "They must have science \expndtw0 of their own, a nonhuman science born on a planet that \expndtw3 isn't Earth. Because they did observe us as profoundly \expndtw-1 as we've ever observed ourselves; they did mount a plan \expndtw4 against us, that would have taken another century or \expndtw1 more to complete. Well, what else do they know? How \expndtw-2 do they support their civilization without visible agricul\-\expndtw2 ture or above-ground buildings or mines or anything? How can they breed whole new intelligent species to \expndtw1 order? A million questions, ten million answers!"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li19\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "\i Can\i0  we learn from them?" Barbro asked softly. "Or \expndtw3 can we only overrun them as you say they fear?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li24\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 Sherrinford halted, leaned elbow on mantel, hugged \expndtw3 his pipe and replied: "I hope we'll show more charity \expndtw1 than that to a defeated enemy. It's what they are. They \expndtw3 tried to conquer us, and failed, and now in a sense we \expndtw1 are bound to conquer them, since they'll have to make \expndtw2 their peace with the civilization of the machine rather \expndtw0 than see it rust away as they strove for. Still, they never did us any harm as atrocious as what we've inflicted on \expndtw3 our fellow man in the past. And, I repeat, they could \expndtw-2 teach us marvelous things; and we could teach them, too, \expndtw1 once they've learned to be less intolerant of a different way of life."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "I suppose we can give them a reservation," she said, \expndtw3 and didn't know why he grimaced and answered so \expndtw-4 roughly:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li43\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 "Let's leave them the honor they've earned! They \expndtw6 fought to save the world they'd always known from \expndtw3 that\emdash " he made a chopping gesture at the city\emdash "and \expndtw-1 just possibly we'd be better off ourselves with less of it."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li53\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 He sagged a trifle and sighed, "However, I suppose if \expndtw-2 Elfland had won, man on Roland would at last\emdash peace\-fully, even happily\emdash have died away. We live with our \expndtw3 archetypes, but can we live in them?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li264\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 Barbro shook her head. "Sorry, I don't understand."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li58\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 "What?" He looked at her in a surprise that drove out \expndtw-2 melancholy. After a laugh: "Stupid of me. I've explained \expndtw-3 this to so many politicians and scientists and commission-\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1968\cf1\expndtw-7\fs24 372\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li5\ri38\sb206\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\fs24 ers and Lord knows what, these past days, I forgot I'd \expndtw-1 never explained to you. It was a rather vague idea of \expndtw0 mine, most of the tune we were traveling, and I don't \expndtw-2 like to discuss ideas prematurely. Now that we've met \expndtw-6 the Outlings and watched how they work, I do feel sure."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li10\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs24 He tamped down his tobacco. "In limited measure," \expndtw-2 he said, "I've used an archetype throughout my own \expndtw-5 working life. The rational detective. It hasn't been a con\-\expndtw-8 scious pose\emdash much\emdash it's simply been an image which fit\-\expndtw-2 ted my personality and professional style. But it draws an appropriate response from most people, whether or \expndtw-3 not they've ever heard of the original. The phenomenon is not uncommon. We meet persons who, in varying degrees, suggest Christ or Buddha or the Earth Mother \expndtw-2 or, say, on a less exalted plane, Hamlet or d'Artagnan. \expndtw-7 Historical, fictional, and mythical, such figures crystallize \expndtw-4 basic aspects of the human psyche, and when we meet \expndtw-1 them in our real experience, our reaction goes deeper \expndtw-5 than consciousness."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri10\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs24 He grew grave again: "Man also creates archetypes \expndtw-3 that are not individuals. The Anima, the Shadow\emdash and, \expndtw-6 it seems, the Outworld. The world of magic, of glam\-\expndtw-2 our\emdash which originally meant enchantment\emdash of half-\expndtw-3 human beings, some like Ariel and some like Caliban, \expndtw-5 but each free of mortal frailties and sorrows\emdash therefore, \expndtw2 perhaps, a little carelessly cruel, more than a little \expndtw-3 tricksy; dwellers in dusk and moonlight, not truly gods \expndtw-4 but obedient to rulers who are enigmatic and powerful \expndtw-1 enough to be\emdash  Yes, our Queen of Air and Darkness \expndtw-6 knew well what sights to let lonely people see, what illu\-\expndtw-5 sions to spin around them from time to time, what songs \expndtw-1 and legends to set going among them. I wonder how \expndtw-6 much she and her underlings gleaned from human fairy \expndtw0 tales, how much they made up themselves, and how \expndtw-5 much men created all over again, all unwittingly, as the \expndtw-2 sense of living on the edge of the world entered them."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li48\ri5\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\fs24 Shadows stole across the room. It grew cooler and the \expndtw0 traffic noises dwindled. Barbro asked mutedly: "But \expndtw-2 what could this do?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi216\li53\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-5\fs24 "In many ways," Sherrinford answered, "the outwayer \expndtw-3\i is \i0 back in the dark ages. He has few neighbors, hears \expndtw-4 scanty news from beyond his horizon, toils to survive in\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li667\cf1\expndtw-4\fs23 THE QUEEN OF AIR AND DARKNESS      373\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri38\sb211\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 a land he only partly understands, that may any night \expndtw-1 raise unforeseeable disasters against him and is bounded \expndtw3 by enormous wildernesses. The machine civilization \expndtw-3 which brought his ancestors here is frail at best. He could \expndtw6 lose it as the dark-age nations had lost Greece and \expndtw2 Rome, as the whole of Earth seems to have lost it. Let \expndtw-2 him be worked on, long, strongly, cunningly, by the \expndtw2 archetypical Outworld, until he has come to believe in \expndtw1 his bones that the magic of the Queen of Air and Dark\-\expndtw0 ness is greater than the energy of engines: and first his \expndtw-1 faith, finally his deeds will follow her. Oh, it wouldn't happen fast. Ideally, it would happen too slowly to be \expndtw-3 noticed, especially by self-satisfied city people. But when \expndtw3 in the end a hinterland gone back to the ancient way turned from them, how could they keep alive?"\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li19\ri38\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Barbro breathed, "She said to me, when their banners \expndtw2 flew in the last of our cities, we would rejoice."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi221\li19\ri34\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 "I think we would have, by then," Sherrinford admit\-\expndtw3 ted. "Nevertheless, I believe in choosing one's own \expndtw-1 destiny."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri29\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 He shook himself, as if casting off a burden. He \expndtw2 knocked the dottle from his pipe and stretched, muscle \expndtw3 by muscle. "Well," he said, "it isn't going to happen."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li240\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4\fs23 She looked straight at him. "Thanks to you."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi206\li29\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 A flush went up his thin cheeks. "In time, I'm sure, \expndtw-1 somebody else would have\emdash  Anyhow, what matters is \expndtw0 what we do next, and that's too big a decision for one \expndtw3 individual or one generation to make."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li34\ri24\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\fs23 She rose. "Unless the decision is personal, Eric," she \expndtw1 suggested, feeling heat in her own face.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li38\ri14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 It was curious to see him shy. "I was hoping we might \expndtw2 meet again."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li259\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "We will."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li43\ri5\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Ayoch sat on Wolund's Barrow. Aurora shuddered so \expndtw2 brilliant, in such vast sheafs of light, as almost to hide \expndtw1 the waning moons. Firethorn blooms had fallen; a few \expndtw-2 still glowed around the tree roots, amidst dry brok which \expndtw-3 crackled underfoot and smelled like woodsmoke. The air \expndtw3 remained warm but no gleam was left on the sunset \expndtw-3 horizon.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li269\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 "Farewell, fare lucky," the pook called. Mistherd and\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\tx1963\cf1\expndtw-13\fs22 374\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1\i Poul Anderson\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li10\ri5\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\fs23 Shadow-of-a-Dream never looked back. It was as if they \expndtw2 didn't dare. They trudged on out of sight, toward the \expndtw-1 human camp whose lights made a harsh new star in the south.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi211\li14\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 Ayoch lingered. He felt he should also offer goodbye \expndtw-2 to her who had lately joined him that slept in the dolmen. Likely none would meet here again for loving or magic. \expndtw1 But he could only think of one old verse that might do. \expndtw2 He stood and trilled:\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li226\ri2765\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\fs23 "Out of her breast \expndtw-1 a blossom ascended. \expndtw0 The summer burned it. \expndtw3 The song is ended."\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li230\sb187\cf1\expndtw1\fs23 Then he spread his wings for the long flight away.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri58\qc\cf1\expndtw4\b\i\fs24 About the Editors\cf0\expndtw0\b0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri34\sb96\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\fs23 ISAAC ASIMOV has been called "one of America's treasures." Born in the Soviet Union, he was brought to \expndtw4 the United States at the age of three (along with his \expndtw-2 family) by agents of the American government in a suc\-\expndtw3 cessful attempt to prevent him from working for the \expndtw-2 wrong side. He quickly established himself as one of this \expndtw3 country's foremost science fiction writers and writes \expndtw-2 about everything, and although now approaching middle \expndtw1 age, he is going stronger than ever. He long ago passed his age and weight in books, and with over 400 to his \expndtw0 credit, threatens to close in on his I.Q. His collection of \expndtw-2 short stories, \i Robot Visions, \i0 was published by Roc Books in March 1991.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li24\ri19\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\fs23 MARTIN H. GREENBERG has been called (in \i The \expndtw1 Science fiction and Fantasy Book Review) \i0 "the King of the Anthologists"; to which he replied, "It's good to be \expndtw3 the King!" He has produced more than 200 of them, \expndtw-2 usually in collaboration with a multitude of co-conspira\-\expndtw5 tors, most frequently the three who have given you \expndtw-3\i Ghosts. \i0 A professor of regional analysis and political sci\-\expndtw-1 ence at the University of Wisconsin-Green Bay, he has finally published his weight.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li43\sb216\sl-221\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\fs23 CHARLES G. WAUGH is a professor of psychology \expndtw5 and communications at the University of Maine at \expndtw-2 Augusta who is still trying to figure out how he got him\-self into all this. He has also worked with many collabo\-\expndtw-3 rators, since he is basically a very friendly fellow. He has \expndtw-2 done over 100 anthologies and single-author collections, \expndtw1 and especially enjoys locating unjustly ignored stories. \expndtw-3 He also claims that he met his wife via computer dating\emdash  \expndtw1 her choice was an entire fraternity or him, and she has only minor regrets.\cf0\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\li58\sb840\qc\cf1\fs22 375\cf0\fs20\par
}
 