{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1253\deff0\deflang1032\deflangfe1032{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset161{\*\fname Times New Roman;}Times New Roman Greek;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sl-552\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-22\b\f0\fs61 CATASTROPHES!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li4334\sb538\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri10\sb221\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs32 edited by\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri19\sb278\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-12\fs40 Isaac Asimov,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri43\sb120\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs40 Martin Harry Greenberg,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri58\sb139\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs40 and Charles G. Waugh\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li101\sb365\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs32 Foreword and Notes by Isaac Asimov\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li854\sb2568\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 FAWCETT CREST  *    NEW YORK\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li10\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-8\fs21 CATASTROPHES!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li5\sb235\sl-216\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Published by Fawcett Crest Books, a unit of CBS Publica\-\expndtw-1 tions, the Consumer Publishing Division of CBS Inc.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li5\sb245\sl-216\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Copyright \'a9 1981 Isaac Asimov, Martin Harry Greenberg \expndtw0 and Charles G. Waugh.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li5\sb53\sl-456\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 All Rights Reserved\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sl-456\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 ISBN: 0-449-24425-3\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Printed in the United States of America\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sb5\sl-456\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 First Fawcett Crest printing: July 1981\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li5\sl-456\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 10   \expndtw155 987654321\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-192\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The editors and publisher are grateful for permission to re\-\expndtw0 print the following:\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\ri10\sb365\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "No Other Gods" by Edward Wellen. Copyright \'a9 1972 by \expndtw-3 Mercury Press, Inc. Reprinted from \i The Magazine of Fantasy \expndtw0 and Science Fiction \i0 by permission of the author,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\ri14\sb120\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "The Wine Has Been Left Open Too Long and the Memory \expndtw1 Has Gone Flat" by Harlan Ellison appeared in \i Universe 6 \expndtw-1\i0 (edited by Terry Carr) and in the author's collection \i Strange \expndtw0 'Wine. \i0 Copyright \'a9 1976 by Harlan Ellison, Reprinted by \expndtw1 arrangement with and permission of the author and the au\-\expndtw0 thor's agent, Robert P, Mills, Ltd., New York. All rights re\-\expndtw-1 served. Excerpts from \i "The \i0 Chart" by W.S. Merwin appear\-\expndtw1 ing in "The Wine Has Been Left Open Too Long and the \expndtw0 Memory Has Gone Flat," which originally appeared in \i The New Yorker, \i0 are reprinted by permission of Atheneum Pub\-\expndtw-6 lishers, from the book \i Houses and Travellers \i0 by W.S. Merwin. \expndtw-1 Copyright \'a9 1977 by W.S. Merwin. Used with thanks,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\ri43\sb120\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "Stars, Won't You Hide Me?" by Ben Bova. Copyright \'a9 1966, \expndtw-1 1973 by Ben Bova. Reprinted by permission of the author.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li14\ri38\sb120\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Judgement Day" by Lloyd Biggie, Jr. Copyright \'a9 1953 by \expndtw0 King-Size Publications. Reprinted by permission of the au\-thor and his agent, Kirby McCauley.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\ri5\sb125\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "The Custodian" by William Tenn. Copyright \i & \i0 1953 by the Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Reprinted by permission of \expndtw3 the author.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\ri29\sb120\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Phoenix" by Clark Ashton Smith. Copyright \'a9 1954 by Au\-\expndtw0 gust Derleth. Reprinted by permission of the agents for the \expndtw2 author's estate, Scott Meredith Literary Agency, Inc., 845 \expndtw-2 Third Ave., New York, NY 10022,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li14\ri34\sb125\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Run From the Fire" by Harry Harrison. Copyright \'a9 1975 \expndtw-2 by Robert Silverfaerg and Roger Elwood; reprinted with per\-\expndtw0 mission of the author.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri43\sb120\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Requiem" by Edmond Hamilton. Copyright \expndtw-1\'a9\expndtw-3  1962 by Ul\-\expndtw-1 timate Publishing Company. Reprinted by permission of the \expndtw6 agents for the author's estate, Scott Meredith Literary \expndtw-3 Agency, Inc., 845 Third Ave., New York, NY 10022.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "At the Core" by Larry Niven. Copyright \'a9 1966 by the \expndtw-2 Galaxy Publishing Corporation. Reprinted by permission of \expndtw-1 Robert P. Mills, Ltd.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\ri19\sb120\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "A Pail of Air" by Fritz Leiber, Copyright \'a9 1951 by Galaxy \expndtw-1 Publishing Corporation. Reprinted by permission of Robert P. Mills, Ltd.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\ri24\sb120\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "King of the Hill" by Chad Oliver. Copyright \'a9 1972 by \expndtw-2 Harlan Ellison. First published in \i Again, Dangerous Visions, \i0 edited by Harlan Ellison. Copyright assigned to Chad Oliver 1979. Reprinted by permission of Chad Oliver.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\ri29\sb120\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "The New Atlantis" by Ursula K. Le Guin. Copyright \i\'a9 \i0 1975 \expndtw-2 by Ursula K. Le Guin; reprinted by permission of author and \expndtw1 her agent, Virginia Kidd.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\ri43\sb115\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "History Lesson" by Arthur C. Clarke. Copyright \'a9 1949 by \expndtw0 Arthur C. Clarke; copyright renewed. Reprinted by permis\-\expndtw2 sion of the author and his agents, Scott Meredith Literary \expndtw-3 Agency, Inc., 845 Third Ave., New York, NY 10022.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\ri48\sb120\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Seeds of Dusk" by Raymond Z. Gallun. Copyright \'a9 1938 \expndtw0 by Street & Smith Publications; copyright renewed. Re\-\expndtw-1 printed by permission of Robert P. Mills, Ltd.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li10\ri53\sb115\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Dark Benediction" by Walter M. Miller, Jr. Copyright \'a9 \expndtw-1 1951 by Walter M. Miller, Jr., renewed 1979. Reprinted by permission of the Harold Matson Co., Inc.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li10\ri48\sb115\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx1291\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Last Night of Summer" by Alfred Coppel. Copyright \'a9 1956\line\expndtw-2 by A. Wyn, Inc. Reprinted by permission of The Lescher\line\expndtw-7 Agency.\expndtw0\tab\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li5\ri58\sb120\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The Store of the Worlds" by Robert Sheckley. Copyright \'a9 \expndtw-3 1959 by Robert Sheckley. Reprinted by permission of Abby Sheckley.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri62\sb115\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "How It Was When the Past Went Away" by Robert Silver-\expndtw-2 berg. Copyright \'a9 1969 by Robert Silverberg. Reprinted by \expndtw-1 permission of the author and his agents, Scott Meredith Lit\-\expndtw-2 erary Agency, Inc., 845 Third Ave., New York, NY 10022.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri67\sb120\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Shark Ship" by C. M. Kornbluth. Copyright \'a9 1958 by C. M. Kornbluth. Reprinted by permission of Robert P. Mills, \expndtw-4 Ltd.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\tx4982\cf1\lang1033\expndtw8\b\i\fs25 Foreword                                                      \expndtw0 9\cf0\lang2057\b0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sb230\sl-235\slmult0\tqr\tx5136\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\b\fs23 Part I - Universe Destroyed\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-14 11\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li773\sl-235\slmult0\qj\tqr\tx5136\cf1\lang1033\expndtw11\fs23 The Last Trump Isaac \i Asimov\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-11\i0 12\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li768\ri5\sl-235\slmult0\qj\tqr\tx5136\cf1\lang1033\expndtw8\fs23 No Other Gods \i Edward Wellen\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-5 27\line\expndtw0\i0 The Wine Has Been Left Open\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li965\sb5\sl-235\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs23 Too Long and the Memory\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi202\li763\sl-235\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\fs23 Has Gone Flat \i Harlan Ellison                 \i0 33 \expndtw0 Stars, Won't You Hide Me?\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li950\sb5\sl-235\slmult0\tqr\tx5136\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i\fs23 Ben Bova\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-5\i0 42\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\sb235\sl-235\slmult0\tqr\tx5136\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\b\fs23 Part II - Sun Destroyed\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-7 56\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li749\sl-235\slmult0\tqr\tx5136\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs23 Judgement Day      \i Lloyd Biggie, Jr.\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-9\i0 57\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li758\sl-235\slmult0\tqr\tx5136\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs23 The Custodian       \i William Tenn\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-7\i0 67\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li754\sl-235\slmult0\tqr\tx5136\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs23 Phoenix      \i Clark Ashton Smith\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-2\i0 86\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs23 Run from the Fire      \i Harry Harrison\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-5\i0 96\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\sb240\sl-235\slmult0\tqr\tx5136\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\b\fs23 Part III - Earth Destroyed\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-6\b0 127\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li749\sl-235\slmult0\tqr\tx5136\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs23 Requiem      \i Edmond Hamilton\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-8\i0 128\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li744\sl-235\slmult0\tqr\tx5136\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs23 At the Core      \i Larry Niven\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-8\i0 145\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li749\sl-235\slmult0\tqr\tx5136\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs23 A Pail of Air      \i Fritz Leiber\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-11\i0 163\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li744\sl-235\slmult0\tqr\tx5136\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs23 King of the Hill      \i Chad Oliver\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-8\i0 176\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\sb240\sl-235\slmult0\tqr\tx5136\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\b\fs23 Part IV - Humanity Destroyed\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-8\b0 193\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li734\sl-235\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw10\fs23 The New Atlantis \i Ursula K. Le Guin     \i0 194\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li739\ri48\sl-235\slmult0\qj\tqr\tx5136\cf1\lang1033\expndtw9\fs23 History Lesson \i Arthur C. Clarke\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-10\i0 217\line\expndtw0 Seeds of the Dusk\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi197\li730\ri38\sl-235\slmult0\qj\tqr\tx5136\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\i\fs23 Raymond Z, Gallun\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-7\i0 226\line\expndtw0 Dark Benediction\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li936\sl-235\slmult0\tqr\tx5136\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i\fs23 Walter M. Miller, Jr.         \expndtw0\tab\expndtw-8\i0 253\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sb240\sl-240\slmult0\tx4714\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\b\fs23 Part V - Civilization Destroyed\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-7 306\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-187\li912\sl-240\slmult0\tx4709\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs24 Last Night of Summer\line\expndtw-5\i Alfred Coppel\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-8\i0 307\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li725\sl-235\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs23 The Store of the Worlds\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi197\li715\sl-235\slmult0\qj\tx4666\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i\fs23 Robert Sheckley\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-7\i0 316\line\expndtw3 How It Was When the Past\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li926\sl-235\slmult0\qj\tx4666\cf1\lang1033\expndtw9\fs23 Went Away \i Robert Silverberg\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-8\i0 322\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li725\sl-235\slmult0\qj\tx4666\cf1\lang1033\expndtw11\fs23 Shark Ship C. \i M. Kornbluth\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-9\i0 381\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sb216\tx4666\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\b\fs24 Afterword\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-11\b0 413\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li62\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\b\fs32 Foreword\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sb720\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 It is quite customary for a piece of fiction to contain at least \expndtw3 the threat of disaster. It is the threat, the menace, the ap\-\expndtw0 prehension of something one desperately does not want to \expndtw4 take place that creates the suspense, and that rouses the \expndtw1 interest of the reader.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 To be sure, the disaster may be a very slight and personal \expndtw-1 one-the youngster who may fail the test, or lose the game, or be turned down for a date-but it is there. To be equally \expndtw0 sure, the story may be a lighthearted one with a happy end\-\expndtw3 ing, but the disaster, however slight, must be there in the \expndtw0 mid-course for the ending to shine happily against.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li34\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 This is not to say that a story cannot be written without \expndtw1 a disaster, but what a dull story it would be and how little worth the reading.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\tx3749\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 And, as in so many other respects, science \expndtw-3 fiction  manages\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 to outshine other types of fiction. Where but in science fiction \expndtw-1 can \i real \i0 disasters be found?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Take the most elaborate of realistic suspense and what \expndtw-6 can you have? The loss of a war? The enslavement of a nation?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 In science fiction, the destruction of civilization is the least \expndtw1 one might expect as the threat of disaster, or its actual ac\-\expndtw0 complishment, is represented to the reader.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 In this collection of twenty stories, we have four stories \expndtw-5 dealing with each of five different levels of disaster, organized \expndtw-1 according to a scheme I devised in my nonfiction discussion \expndtw-5 entitled A \i Choice of Catastrophes \i0 (Simon and Schuster, 1979; \expndtw-2 Fawcett Columbine, 1981),\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The movement is from the most all-encompassing catas\-\expndtw1 trophes toward progressively narrower ones. If this sounds \expndtw0 to you like a journey into anticlimax, you are wrong, for as \expndtw-1 the catastrophes become narrower, they also become more \expndtw-2 probable. In short, in this book you may be steadily decreas\-\expndtw0 ing the scope but you are as steadily increasing the danger.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Why bother? Why scare yourself?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 For one thing, these are memorable stories you will enjoy \expndtw-1 and won't easily forget. For another, humanity \i does \i0 face ca\-tastrophes of various levels of scope and various gradations \expndtw-4 of likelihood, and if there is any chance at all of evading them \expndtw-2 or blunting them, that chance will be heightened if we know \expndtw0 what the dangers may be and consider in advance how to \expndtw1 prevent or ameliorate them.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx4795\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Staring at danger may not be pleasant-but closing your\line\expndtw-3 eyes will not make the danger go away, and with closed eyes\line\expndtw-2 you will surely be destroyed by it.\expndtw0\tab\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li3106\sb86\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6\i\fs21 ISAAC ASIMOV\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\cf1\lang1033\fs110 1\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sb715\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs33 UNIVERSE DESTROYED\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\ri5\sb269\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 In \i A Choice of Catastrophes, \i0 "Catastrophes of the First Class" \expndtw0 are those in which the whole Universe is destroyed.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Actually, the possibility of such a catastrophe long ante\-dates the imaginings of modern science fiction. In ancient \expndtw2 times, it was usually taken for granted that the Universe \expndtw-3 would be destroyed someday (as it was created) by the Word \expndtw-2 of God, or by the decree of Fate.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 Even today there are many who assume that there will \expndtw-1 be a Day of Judgment and that it is even imminent. In every \expndtw0 generation there are those who await it momentarily ("The \expndtw-1 Last Trump" by Isaac Asimov). And, of course, the end can \expndtw-2 come about through the action not of the Creator of Human\-\expndtw0 ity, but of the Created of Humanity ("No Other Gods" by \expndtw-3 Edward Wellen).\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 If we put mythology to one side and confine ourselves to the even mightier and more colorful conclusions of science, \expndtw1 we do not have the crash of the Lord as He slams shut the \expndtw-4 Book of Life, but rather the long, long dwindle of sound ever, \expndtw2 ever fainter as the Universe whispers dyingly to its death; \expndtw0 as entropy increases, ever more slowly, to its maximum; as \expndtw-3 available energy dwindles to zero and with it all change, life, \expndtw-6 us ("The Wine Has Been Left Open Too Long and the Memory \expndtw0 Has Gone Flat" by Harlan Ellison).\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Or else, there can be a revival. The expanding Universe \expndtw-1 can recontract, the unwinding rewind, the dying undie. That \expndtw0 sounds good and hopeful but what the revival ends in is as \expndtw-4 surely, if much more gloriously, the death of all ("Stars, Won't You Hide Me?" by Ben Bova).\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li1570\ri1565\sl-470\slmult0\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\b\fs28 The Last Trump \expndtw1\b0 ISAAC ASIMOV\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\ri10\sb422\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 The' Archangel Gabriel was quite casual about the whole \expndtw3 thing. Idly, he let the tip of one wing graze the planet Mars, which, being of mere matter, was unaffected by the contact.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 He said, "It's a settled matter, Etheriel. There's nothing \expndtw3 to be done about it now. The Day of Resurrection is due."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Etheriel, a very junior seraph who had been created not \expndtw2 quite a thousand years earlier as men counted time, quivered \expndtw6 so that distinct vortices appeared in the continuum. Ever \expndtw2 since his creation, he had been in immediate charge of Earth \expndtw1 and environs. As a job, it was a sinecure, a cubbyhole, a dead end, but through the centuries he had come to take a perverse \expndtw4 pride in the world.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "But you'll be disrupting my world without notice."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Not at all. Not at all. Certain passages occur in the Book \expndtw3 of Daniel and in the Apocalypse of St. John which are clear \expndtw2 enough."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "They are? Having been copied from scribe to scribe? I \expndtw3 wonder if two words in a row are left unchanged,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "There are hints in the Rig-Veda, in the Confucian Ana\-\expndtw-3 lects-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Which are the property of isolated cultural groups which \expndtw4 exist as a thin aristocracy-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "The Gilgamesh Chronicle speaks out plainly."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri29\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 "Much of the Gilgamesh Chronicle was destroyed with the \expndtw4 library of Ashurbanipal sixteen hundred years, Earth-style, \expndtw2 before my creation."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 "There are certain features of the Great Pyramid and a \expndtw4 pattern in the inlaid jewels of the Taj Mahal-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "Which are so subtle that no man has ever rightly inter\-\expndtw4 preted them."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Gabriel said wearily, "If you're going to object to every-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 thing, there's no use discussing the matter. In any case, \i you \i0 ought to know about it. In matters concerning Earth, you're \expndtw-2 omniscient,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Yes, if I choose to be. I've had much to concern me here \expndtw-1 and investigating the possibilities of Resurrection did not, I \expndtw-3 confess, occur to me."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Well, it should have. AH the papers involved are in the \expndtw-2 files of the Council of Ascendants, You could have availed \expndtw1 yourself of them at any time."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "I tell you all my time \i was \i0 needed here. You have no idea \expndtw0 of the deadly efficiency of the Adversary on this planet. It \expndtw-2 took all my efforts to curb him, and even so-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Why, yes"-Gabriel stroked a cotnet as it passed-"he \expndtw0 does seem to have won his little victories, I note as I let the \expndtw-3 interlocking factual pattern of this miserable little world flow \expndtw1 through me that this is one of those setups with matter-en\-\expndtw-1 ergy equivalence."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "So it is," said Etheriel.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "And they are playing with it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I'm afraid so."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Then what better time for ending the matter?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "I'll be able to handle it, I assure you. Their nuclear bombs \expndtw0 will not destroy them."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "I wonder. Well, now, suppose you let me continue, Eth\-\expndtw-1 eriel. The appointed moment approaches,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The seraph said stubbornly, "I would like to see the doc\-\expndtw1 uments in the case."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "If you insist." The wording of an Act of Ascendancy ap\-\expndtw2 peared in glittering symbols against the deep black of the \expndtw1 airless firmament.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li5\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Etheriel read aloud: "It is hereby directed by order of \expndtw-1 Council that the Archangel Gabriel, Serial number etcetera, \expndtw0 etcetera (well, that's you, at any rate), will approach Planet, \expndtw-1 Class A, number G753990, hereinafter known as Earth, and \expndtw0 on January 1,1957, at 12:01 \scaps pm., \scaps0 using local time values-" \expndtw-1 He finished reading in gloomy silence.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\fs21 "Satisfied,?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "No, but I'm helpless,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Gabriel smiled. A trumpet appeared in space, in shape like \expndtw1 an earthly trumpet, but its burnished gold extended from Earth to sun. It was raised to Gabriel's glittering beautiful \expndtw-4 lips.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Can't you let me have a little time to take this up with \expndtw0 the Council?" asked Etheriel desperately.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "What good would it do you? The act is countersigned by \expndtw4 the Chief, and you know that an act countersigned by the \expndtw2 Chief is absolutely irrevocable. And now, if you don't mind, \expndtw3 it is almost the stipulated second and I want to be done with \expndtw4 this as I have other matters of much greater moment on my \expndtw3 mind. Would you step out of my way a little? Thank you."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Gabriel blew, and a clean, thin sound of perfect pitch and \expndtw1 crystalline delicacy filled all the universe to the furthest star. \expndtw5 As it sounded, there was a tiny moment of stasis as thin as the line separating past from future, and then the fabric of \expndtw3 worlds collapsed upon itself and matter was gathered back \expndtw4 into the primeval chaos from which it had once sprung at a \expndtw2 word. The stars and nebulae were gone, and the cosmic dust, \expndtw5 the sun, the planets, the moon; all, all, all except the Earth \expndtw3 itself, which spun as before in a universe now completely \expndtw0 empty.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 The Last Trump had sounded.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri34\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 R. E. Mann (known to all who knew him simply as R. E.) \expndtw2 eased himself into the offices of the Billikan Bitsies factory and stared somberly at the tall man (gaunt but with a certain \expndtw4 faded elegance about his neat gray mustache) who bent in\-tently over a sheaf of papers on his desk.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx3850\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 R. E. looked at his wristwatch, which still said 7:01, having\line\expndtw6 ceased running at that time. It was Eastern standard time,\line\expndtw2 of course; 12:01 \scaps p.m. \scaps0 Greenwich time. His dark brown eyes,\line\expndtw4 staring sharply out over a pair of pronounced cheekbones,\line\expndtw3 caught those of the other.\expndtw0\tab\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 For a moment, the tall man stared at him blankly. Then \expndtw3 he said, "Can I do anything for you?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Horatio J. Billikan, I presume? Owner of this place?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sb10\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3 "Yes."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "I'm R. E. Mann and I couldn't help but stop in when I \expndtw2 finally found someone at work. Don't you know what today \expndtw-3 is?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3 "Today?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "It's Resurrection Day."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tlul\tx653\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 "Oh, that! I know it. I heard the blast. Pit to wake the\line\expndtw0 dead\tab That's rather a good one, don't you think?" He chuck\-\line\expndtw3 led for a moment, then went on. "It woke me at seven in the\line\expndtw4 morning. I nudged my wife. She slept through it, of course.\line\expndtw5 I always said she would. 'It's the Last Trump, dear,' I said.\line\expndtw4 Hortense, that's my wife, said, 'All right,' and went back to\line\expndtw3 sleep. I bathed, shaved, dressed and came to work."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2410\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "But why?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "Why not?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "None of your workers have come in."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "No, poor souls. They'll take a holiday just at first. You've \expndtw0 got to expect that. After all, it isn't every day that the world \expndtw2 comes to an end. Frankly, it's just as well. It gives me a \expndtw-3 chance to straighten out my personal correspondence without \expndtw0 interruptions. Telephone hasn't rung once."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He stood up and went to the window. "It's a great im\-\expndtw-1 provement. No blinding sun any more and the snow's gone. \expndtw1 There's a pleasant light and a pleasant warmth. Very good \expndtw-1 arrangement- But now, if you don't mind, I'm \i rather \i0 busy, \expndtw-3 so if you'll excuse me-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 A great, hoarse voice interrupted with a, "Just a minute, \expndtw-2 Horatio," and a gentleman, looking remarkably like Billikan \expndtw-5 in a somewhat craggier way, followed his prominent nose into \expndtw0 the office and struck an attitude of offended dignity which \expndtw1 was scarcely spoiled by the fact that he was quite naked. \expndtw-1 "May I ask why you've shut down Bitsies?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 B.illikan looked faint. "Good Heavens," he said, "it's \expndtw-2 Father. Wherever did you come from?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "From the graveyard," roared Billikan, Senior. "Where on \expndtw1 Earth else? They're coming out of the ground there by the \expndtw-2 dozens. Every one of them naked. Women, too,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Billikan cleared his throat. "I'll get you some clothes, Father. I'll bring them to you from home."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Never mind that. Business first. Business first."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 R. E. came out of his musing. "Is everyone coming out of \expndtw2 their graves at the same time, sir?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He stared curiously at Billikan, Senior, as he spoke. The \expndtw-3 old man's appearance was one of rubust age. His cheeks were furrowed but glowed with health. His age, R. E. decided, was \expndtw-1 exactly what it was at the moment of his death, but his body \expndtw-3 was as it should have been at that age if it functioned ideally.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Billikan, Senior, said, "No, sir, they are not. The newer \expndtw-1 graves are coming up first, Pottersby died five years before \expndtw1 me and came up about five minutes after me. Seeing him \expndtw-6 made me decide to leave. I had had enough of him when... And \expndtw1 that reminds me." He brought his fist down on the desk, a \expndtw-1 very solid fist. "There were no taxis, no busses. Telephones weren't working. I had to walk. I had to walk twenty miles."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Like that?" asked his son in a faint and appalled voice.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Billikan, Senior, looked down upon his bare skin with \expndtw4 casual approval. "It's warm. Almost everyone else is na-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\sl-197\slmult0\tlul\tx605\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 ked....\expndtw5 Anyway, son, I'm not here to make small talk. Why\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 is the factory shut down?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "It isn't shut down. It's a special occasion."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Special occasion, my foot. You call union headquarters \expndtw4 and tell them Resurrection Day isn't in the contract. Every \expndtw3 worker is being docked for every minute he's off the job."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Billikan's lean face took on a stubborn look as he peered at his father. "I will not. Don't forget, now, you're no longer \expndtw5 in charge of this plant. I am."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Oh, you are? By what right?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "By your will."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "All right. Now here I am and I void my will."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "You can't, Father. You're dead. You may not look dead, \expndtw4 but I have witnesses. I have the doctor's certificate. I have \expndtw2 receipted bills from the undertaker. I can get testimony from \expndtw5 the pallbearers."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Billikan, Senior, stared at his son, sat down, placed his \expndtw3 arm over the back of the chair, crossed his legs and said, "If \expndtw2 it comes to that, we're all dead, aren't we? The world's come \expndtw5 to an end, hasn't it?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "But you've been declared legally dead and I haven't."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "Oh, we'll change that, son. There are going to be more \expndtw3 of us than of you and votes count."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Billikan, Junior, tapped the desk firmly with the flat of \expndtw2 his hand and flushed slightly. "Father, I hate to bring up this \expndtw3 particular point, but you force me to. May I remind you that by now I am sure that Mother is sitting at, home waiting for you; that she probably had to walk the streets-uh-naked, \expndtw4 too; and that she probably isn't in a good humor."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Billikan, Senior, went ludicrously pale. "Good Heavens!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "And you know she always wanted you to retire."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Billikan, Senior, came to a quick decision. "I'm not going \expndtw5 home. Why, this is a nightmare. Aren't there any limits to this Resurrection business? It's-it's-it's sheer anarchy. \expndtw0 There's such a thing as overdoing it. I'm just not going home."\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx4075\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 At which point, a somewhat rotund gentleman with a\line\expndtw2 smooth, pink face and fluffy white sideburns (much like pic\-\line\expndtw0 tures of Martin Van Buren) stepped in and said coldly, \i "Good\line\expndtw-2\i0 day."\expndtw0\tab\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Father," said Billikan, Senior.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "Grandfather," said Billikan, Junior.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Billikan, Grandsenior, looked at Billikan, Junior, with \expndtw2 disapproval. "If you are my grandson," he said, "you've aged \expndtw4 considerably and the change has not improved you,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2424\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri384\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Billikan, Junior, smiled with dyspeptic feebleness, \expndtw-1 made no answer.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Billikan, Grandsenior, did not seem to require one. He \expndtw-5 said, "Now if you two will bring me up to date on the business, \expndtw-1 I will resume my managerial function"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 There were two simultaneous answers, and Billikan, Grandsenior's, floridity waxed dangerously as he beat the \expndtw-3 ground peremptorily with an imaginary cane and barked a re\-\expndtw0 tort.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 R. E. said, "Gentlemen."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He raised his voice, "Gentlemen!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He shrieked at full lung-power, "GENTLEMEN!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Conversation snapped off sharply and all turned to look at him. R. E.'s angular face, his oddly attractive eyes, his \expndtw-2 sardonic mouth seemed suddenly to dominate the gathering.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li34\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He said, "I don't understand this argument. What is it that you manufacture?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Biteies," said Billikan, Junior.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Which, I take it, are a packaged cereal breakfast food-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 'Teeming with energy in every golden, crispy flake-" \expndtw1 cried Billikan, Junior,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Covered with honey-sweet, crystalline sugar; a confection \expndtw-2 and a food-" growled Billikan, Senior.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "To tempt the most jaded appetite," roared Billikan, \expndtw-2 Grandsenior.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Exactly," said R. E. "What appetite?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 They stared stolidly at him. "I beg your pardon," said Bil\-\expndtw1 likan, Junior.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Are any of you hungry?" asked R. E. "I'm not."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "What is this fool maundering about?" demanded Billikan, \expndtw0 Grandsenior, angrily. His invisible cane would have been \expndtw2 prodding E. E. in the navel had it (the cane, not the navel) \expndtw-2 existed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li14\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 S, E. said, "I'm trying to tell you that no one will ever eat \expndtw1 again. It is the hereafter, and food is unnecessary,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li14\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The expressions on the faces of the Billikans needed no \expndtw1 interpretation. It was,obvious that they had tried their own appetites and found them wanting.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Billikan, Junior, said ashenly, "Rained!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Billikan, Grandsenior, pounded the floor heavily and \expndtw-1 noiselessly with his imaginary cane. "This is confiscation of \expndtw-4 property without due process-of law. I'll sue. I'11 sue."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Quite unconstitutional," agreed Billikan, Senior.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "If you can find anyone to sue, I wish you all good fortune,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2429\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 said R. E. agreeably. "And now if you'll excuse me I think I'll \expndtw1 walk toward the graveyard."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He put his hat on his head and walked out the door.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\sb187\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Etheriel, his vortices quivering, stood before the glory of \expndtw-2 a six-winged cherub.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li24\ri29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The cherub said, "If I understand you, your particular universe has been dismantled."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Exactly."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Well, surely, now, you don't expect \i me \i0 to set it up again?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri24\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "I don't expect you to do anything," said Etheriel, "except \expndtw1 to arrange an appointment for me with the Chief."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 The cherub gestured his respect instantly at hearing the \expndtw-2 word. Two wing-tips covered his feet, two his \'abyes and two \expndtw-4 his mouth. He restored himself to normal and said, "The Chief \expndtw-1 is quite busy. There are a myriad score of matters for him to \expndtw-5 decide."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li24\ri34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Who denies that? I merely point out that if matters stand \expndtw0 as they are now, there will have been a universe in which Satan will have won the final victory."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Satan?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "It's the Hebrew word for Adversary," said Etheriel im\-\expndtw-1 patiently. "I could say Ahriman, which is the Persian word. \expndtw1 In any case, I mean the Adversary."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The cherub said, "But what will an interview with the \expndtw-4 Chief accomplish? The document authorizing the Last Trump \expndtw0 was countersigned by the Chief, and you know that it is \expndtw-1 irrevocable for that reason. The Chief would never limit his \expndtw-2 own omnipotence by canceling a word he had spoken in his \expndtw-3 official capacity."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Is that final? You will not arrange an appointment?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "I cannot."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri24\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Etheriel said, "In that case, I shall seek out the Chief \expndtw1 without one. I will invade the Primum Mobile, If it means \expndtw2 my destruction, so be it." He gathered his energies-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri43\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The cherub murmured in horror, "Sacrilege!" and there was a faint gathering of thunder as Etheriel sprang upward \expndtw-2 and was gone.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri48\sb197\sl-211\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 R. E. Mann passed through the crowding streets and grew \expndtw-4 used to the sight of people bewildered, disbelieving, apathetic, \expndtw1 in makeshift clothing or, usually, none at all.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 A girl, who looked about twelve, leaned over an iron gate,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2424\sb106\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 one foot on a crossbar, swinging it to and fro, and said as he passed, "Hello, mister."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li53\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Hello," said R. E. The girl was dressed. She was not one \expndtw-2 of the-uh-returnees.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li53\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The girl said, "We got a new baby in our house. She's a sister I once had. Mommy is crying and they sent me here."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 R, E. said, "Well, well," passed through the gate and up \expndtw-2 the paved walk to the house, one with modest pretensions to \expndtw-1 middle-class gentility. He rang the bell, obtained no answer, opened the door and walked in.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He followed the sound of sobbing and knocked at an inner \expndtw0 door. A stout man of about fifty with little hair and a com\-fortable supply of cheek and chin looked out at him with \expndtw1 mingled astonishment and resentment.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Who are you?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li38\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 R. E. removed his hat. "I thought I might be able to help. Your little girl outside-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 A woman looked up at him hopelessly from a chair by a double bed. Her hair was beginning to gray. Her face was \expndtw0 puffed and unsightly with weeping and the veins stood out \expndtw-4 bluely on the back of her hands. A baby lay on the bed, plump \expndtw-1 and naked. It kicked its feet languidly and its sightless baby \expndtw2 eyes turned aimlessly here and there.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "This is my baby," said the woman. "She was born twenty-\expndtw-1 three years ago in this house and she died when she was ten \expndtw0 days old in this house, I wanted her back so much,"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "And now you have her," said R. E.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "But it's too late," cried the woman vehemently. "I've had \expndtw-5 three other children. My oldest girl is married; my son is in the \expndtw-6 army. I'm too old to have a baby now. And even if-even if-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Her features worked in a heroic effort to keep back the \expndtw1 tears and failed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Her husband said with flat tonelessness, "It's not a real \expndtw0 baby. It doesn't cry. It doesn't soil itself. It won't take milk. \expndtw-2 What will we do? It'll never grow. It'll  always be a baby."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 R. E. shook his head. "I don't know," he said. "I'm afraid I can do nothing to help."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Quietly he left. Quietly he thought of the hospitals. Thou\-\expndtw0 sands of babies must be appearing at each one.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Place them in racks, he thought, sardonically. Stack them \expndtw-7 like cord wood. They need no care. Their little bod iesare merely \expndtw-2 each the custodian of an indestructible spark of life.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li5\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 He passed two little boys of apparently equal chronological \expndtw1 age, perhaps ten. Their voices were shrill. The body of one\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2424\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 glistened white in the sunless light so he was a returnee. The \expndtw0 other was not. R. E. paused to listen.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The bare one said, "I had scarlet fever."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 A spark of envy at the other's claim to notoriety seemed \expndtw-1 to enter the clothed one's voice. "Gee."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "That's why I died."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Gee. Did they use pensillun or auromysun?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "What?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "They're medicines."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I never heard of them."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Boy, you never heard of \i much."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I know as much as \i you."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Yeah? Who's President of the United States?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Warren Harding, that's who."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You're crazy. It's Eisenhower."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "Who's he?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Ever see television?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "What's that?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The clothed boy hooted earsplittingly. "It's something you turn on and see comedians, movies, cowboys, rocket rangers, \expndtw1 anything you want."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Let's see it."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 There was a pause and the boy from the present said, "It \expndtw1 ain't working."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The other boy shrieked his scorn. "You mean it ain't never \expndtw-1 worked. You made it all up."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 R. E. shrugged and passed on.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The crowds thinned as he left town and neared the cem\-\expndtw0 etery. Those who were left were all walking into town, all \expndtw-2 were nude.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 A man stopped him; a cheerful man with pinkish skin and \expndtw-1 white hair who had the marks of pince-nez oh either side of \expndtw0 the bridge of his nose, but no glasses to go with them.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Greetings, friend."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Hello," said R. E.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "You're the first man with clothing that I've seen. You \expndtw0 were alive when the trumpet blew, I suppose."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Yes, I was."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "Well, isn't this great? Isn't this joyous and delightful? \expndtw-3 Come rejoice with me."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "You like this, do you?" said R. E.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\i\fs21 "Like it? A \i0 pure and radiant joy fills me. We are sur\-rounded by the light of the first day; the light that glowed softly and serenely before sun, moon and stars were made.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 (You know your Genesis, of course.) There is the comfortable \expndtw1 warmth that must have been one of the highest blisses of \expndtw-4 Eden; not enervating heat or assaulting cold. Men and women \expndtw-1 walk the streets unclothed and are not ashamed. All is well, \expndtw0 my friend, all is well."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li53\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 R. E. said, "Well, it's a fact that I haven't seemed to mind \expndtw0 the feminine display all about."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Natxirally not," said the other. "Lust and sin as we re\-member it in our earthly existence no longer exist. Let me \expndtw-2 introduce myself, friend, as I was in earthly times. My name \expndtw-1 on Earth was Winthrop Hester. I was born in 1812 and died \expndtw-3 in 1884 as we counted time then. Through the last forty years \expndtw-1 of my life I labored to bring my little flock to the Kingdom and I go now to count the ones I have won."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 R. E. regarded the ex-minister solemnly. "Surely there has \expndtw1 been no Judgment yet."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\li10\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Why not? The Lord sees within a man and in the same \expndtw2 instant that all things of the world ceased, all men were \expndtw0 judged and we are the saved."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "There must be a great many saved."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "On the contrary, my son, those saved are but as a rem\-\expndtw2 nant."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "A pretty large remnant. As near as I can make out, every\-\expndtw-2 one's coming back to life. I've seen some pretty unsavory \expndtw1 characters back in town as alive as you are."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Last-minute repentance-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "I never repented."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Of what, my son?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Of the fact that I never attended church."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Winthrop Hester stepped back hastily. "Were you ever \expndtw-3 baptized?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Not to my knowledge."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Winthrop Hester trembled, "Surely you believed in God?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Well," said R. E., "I believed a lot of things about Him \expndtw0 that would probably startle you."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Winthrop Hester turned and hurried off in great agitation.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 In what remained of his walk to the cemetery (R, E. had \expndtw-1 no way of estimating time, nor did it occur to him to try) no one else stopped him. He found the cemetery itself all but empty, its trees and grass gone (it occurred to him that there was nothing green in the world; the ground everywhere was \expndtw-3 a hard, featureless, grainless gray; the sky a luminous white), \expndtw1 but its headstones still standing.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li235\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 On one of these sat a lean and furrowed man with long,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 black hair on his head and a mat of it, shorter, though more impressive, on his chest and upper arms.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li202\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21  He called out in a deep voice, "Hey, there, you!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 R. E. sat down on a neighboring headstone, "Hello."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Black-hair said, "Your clothes don't look right. What year \expndtw0 was it when it happened?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "1957."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "I died in 1807. Funny! I expected to be one pretty hot boy \expndtw0 right about now, with the 'tarnal flames shooting up my in\-nards."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Aren't you coming along to town?" asked R. E.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "My name's Zeb," said the ancient. 'That's short for Ze-\expndtw-4 bulon, but Zeb's good enough. What's the town like? Changed \expndtw-3 some, I reckon?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "It's got nearly a hundred thousand people in it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Zeb's mouth yawned somewhat. "Go on. Might nigh big-\expndtw2 ger'n Philadelphia- You're making fun."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Philadelphia's got-" R. E. paused. Stating the figure \expndtw-1 would do him no good. Instead, he said, "The town's grown \expndtw0 in a hundred fifty years, you know."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Country, too?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Forty-eight states," said R. E. "All the way to the Pacific."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "No!" Zeb slapped his thigh in delight and then winced at \expndtw-1 the unexpected absence of rough homespun to take up the \expndtw-2 worst of the blow. "I'd head out west if I wasn't needed here. \expndtw-1 Yes, sir." His face grew lowering and his thin lips took on a \expndtw1 definite grimness. "I'll stay right here, where I'm needed."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Why are you needed?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The explanation came out briefly, bitten off hard. "Injuns!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Indians?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Millions of 'em. First the tribes we fought and licked and \expndtw2 then tribes who ain't never seen a white man. They'll all \expndtw-2 come back to life. I'll need my old buddies. You city fellers \expndtw2 ain't no good at it- Ever seen an Injun?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 R. E. said, "Not around here lately, no."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri10\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Zeb looked his contempt, and tried to spit to one side but \expndtw-3 found no saliva for the purpose. He said, "You better git back to the city, then. After a while, it ain't going to be safe nohow \expndtw1 round here. Wish I had my musket."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri19\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 R. E. rose, thought a moment, shrugged and faced back \expndtw-2 to the city. The headstone he had been sitting upon collapsed \expndtw1 as he rose, falling into a powder of gray stone that melted \expndtw3 into the featureless ground. He looked about. Most of the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2395\sl-202\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 headstones were gone. The rest would not last long. Only the \expndtw0 one under Zeb still looked firm and strong,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 R. E. began the walk back. Zeb did not turn to look at him. \expndtw0 He remained waiting quietly and calmly-for Indians.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\sb192\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Etheriel plunged through the heavens in reckless haste. \expndtw-4 The eyes of the Ascendants were on him, he knew. Prom late-\expndtw-2 born seraph, through cherubs and angels, to the highest arch\-\expndtw0 angel, they must be watching.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Already he was higher than any Ascendant, uninvited, \expndtw-4 had ever been before and he waited for the quiver of the Word \expndtw-1 that would reduce his vortices to non-existence.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 But he did not falter. Through non-space and non-time, \expndtw0 he plunged toward union with the Primum Mobile; the seat \expndtw1 that encompassed all that Is, Was, Would Be, Had Been, \expndtw-2 Could Be and Might Be.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\fs21 And as he thought that, he burst through and was part \expndtw0 of it, his being expanding so that momentarily he, too, was part of the All. But then it was mercifully veiled from his \expndtw-2 senses, and the Chief was a still, small voice within him, yet \expndtw2 all the more impressive in its infinity for all that.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "My son," the voice said, "I know why you have come."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Then help me, if that be your will."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li14\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx3307\tx4862\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "By my own will," said the Chief, "an act of mine is ir\-\line\expndtw-2 revocable. All your mankind, my son, yearned for life. All\line feared death. All evolved thoughts and dreams of life unend\-\line ing. No two groups of men; no two single men; evolved the\line\expndtw3 same afterlife, but all wished life. I was petitioned that I\line might grant \expndtw6 the common denominator \expndtw-4 of all these   \expndtw0 wishes-l\expndtw-1 ife unending, I did so."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "No servant of yours made that request,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "The Adversary did, my son."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Etheriel trailed his feeble glory in dejection and said in \expndtw-1 a low voice, "I am dust in your sight and unworthy to be in \expndtw0 your presence, yet I must ask a question. Is then the Adver\-sary your servant also?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Without him I can have no other, said the Chief, Tor \expndtw1 what then is Good but the eternal fight against Evil?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 And in that fight, thought Etheriel, I have lost.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri14\sb192\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 R. E. paused in sight of town. The buildings were crum\-bling. Those that were made of wood were already heaps of \expndtw0 rubble. R. E. walked to the nearest such heap and found the \expndtw-2 wooden splinters powdery and dry.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri72\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He penetrated deeper into town and found the brick build\-\expndtw1 ings still standing, but there was an ominous roundness to the edges of the bricks, a threatening flakiness.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri77\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "They won't last long," said a deep voice, "but there is this \expndtw0 consolation, if consolation it be; their collapse can kill no \expndtw-6 one."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 R. E. looked up in surprise and found himself face to face \expndtw5 with a cadaverous Don Quixote of a man, lantern-jawed, \expndtw0 sunken-cheeked. His eyes were sad and his brown hair was \expndtw-1 lank and straight. His clothes hung loosely and skin showed \expndtw1 clearly through various rents.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri82\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "My name," said the man, "is Richard Levine. I was a \expndtw-2 professor of history once-before this happened,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri62\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You're wearing clothes," said R. E. "You're not one of \expndtw0 those resurrected."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri86\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "No, but that mark of distinction is vanishing. Clothes are \expndtw-5 going."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri86\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 R. E. looked at the throngs that drifted past them, moving \expndtw-6 slowly and aimlessly like motes in a sunbeam, Vanishingly few \expndtw-3 wore clothes. He looked down at himself and noticed for the \expndtw-5 first time that the seam down the length of each trouser leg had \expndtw-4 parted. He pinched the fabric of his jacket between thumb and \expndtw-3 forefinger and the wool parted and came away easily.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I guess you're right," said R. E.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri101\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "If you'll notice," went on Levine, "Mellon's Hill is flat\-\expndtw1 tening out."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri86\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 R. E. turned to the north where ordinarily the mansions \expndtw0 of the aristocracy (such aristocracy as there was in town) \expndtw-2 studded the slopes of Mellon's Hill, and found the horizon \expndtw1 nearly flat.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri106\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Levine said, "Eventually, there'll be nothing but flatness, featurelessness, nothingness-and us."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri106\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "And Indians," said R. E. "There's a man outside of town \expndtw1 waiting for Indians and wishing he had a musket."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri106\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "I imagine," said Levine, "the Indians will give no trouble. \expndtw2 There is no pleasure in fighting an enemy that cannot be \expndtw-2 killed or hurt. And even if that were not so, the lust for battle \expndtw0 would be gone, as are all lusts."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Are you sure?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri110\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "I am positive. Before all this happened, although you may \expndtw-1 not think it to look at me, I derived much harmless pleasure in a consideration of the female figure. Now, with the unex\-\expndtw-3 ampled opportunities at my disposal, I find myself irritatingly\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li72\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\fs21 uninterested No, that is wrong. I am not even irritated at \expndtw0 my disinterest."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li67\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 R. E. looked up briefly at the passers-by. "I see what you mean."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "The coming of Indians here," said Levine, "is nothing \expndtw0 compared with the situation in the Old World. Early during \expndtw-2 the Resurrection, Hitler and his Wehrmacht must have come \expndtw0 back to life and must now be facing and intermingled with Stalin and the Red Army all the way from Berlin to Stalin\-\expndtw-2 grad. To complicate the situation, the Kaisers and Czars will \expndtw1 arrive. The men at Verdun and the Somme are back in the \expndtw0 old battlegrounds. Napoleon and his marshals are scattered \expndtw-1 over western Europe. And Mohammed must be back to see \expndtw1 what following ages have made of Islam, while the Saints and Apostles consider the paths of Christianity. And even \expndtw0 the Mongols, poor things, the Khans from Temujin to Au-rangzeb, must be wandering the steppes helplessly, longing for their horses,"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li48\ri34\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "As a professor of history," said R. E., "you must long to \expndtw0 be there and observe."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "How could I be there? Every man's position on Earth is re\-\expndtw-3 stricted to the distance he can walk. There are no machines of \expndtw-2 any kind, and, as I have just mentioned, no horses. And what \expndtw-3 would I find in Europe anyway? Apathy, I think! As here."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 A soft plopping sound caused R. E. to turn around. The wing of a neighboring brick building had collapsed in dust. \expndtw-2 Portions of bricks lay on either side of him. Some must have \expndtw-3 hurtled through him without his being aware of it. He looked \expndtw0 about. The heaps of rubble were less numerous. Those that \expndtw-2 remained, were smaller in size.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li29\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He said, "I met a man who thought we had all been judged \expndtw1 and are in Heaven,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Judged?" said Levine. "Why, yes, I imagine we are. We \expndtw-2 face eternity now. We have no universe left, no outside phe\-\expndtw-4 nomena, no emotions, no passions. Nothing but ourselves and \expndtw1 thought. We face an eternity of introspection, when" all \expndtw-1 through history we have never known-what to do with our\-\expndtw0 selves on a rainy Sunday."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You sound as though the situation bothers you.'\super v\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\nosupersub\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "It does more than that. The Dantean conceptions of In\-\expndtw-2 ferno were childish and unworthy of the Divine imagination: \expndtw1 fire and torture. Boredom is much more subtle. The inner \expndtw0 torture of a mind unable to escape itself in any way, con\-\expndtw-1 demned to fester in its own exuding mental pus for all time,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2390\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\ri34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 is much more fitting. Oh, yes, my friend, we have been judged, \expndtw0 and condemned, too, and this is not Heaven, but hell."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 And Levine rose with shoulders drooping dejectedly, and \expndtw-2 walked away.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\ri24\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx3883\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 R. E. gazed thoughtfully about and nodded his head. He\line\expndtw-3 was satisfied.\expndtw0\tab\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\sb197\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The self-admission of failure lasted but an instant in Eth-\expndtw-3 eriel, and then, quite suddenly, he lifted his being as brightly \expndtw0 and highly as he dared in the presence of the Chief and his glory was a tiny dot of light in the infinite Primum Mobile.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri43\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "If it be your will, then," he said. "I do not ask you to \expndtw0 defeat your will but to fulfill it."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "In what way, my son?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri43\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "The document, approved by the Council of Ascendants \expndtw0 and signed by yourself, authorizes the Day of Resurrection \expndtw-2 at a specific time of a specific day of the year 1957 as Earth-\expndtw0 men count time."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "So it did."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri48\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "But the year 1957 is unqualified. What then is 1957? To \expndtw-1 the dominant culture on Earth the year was A D. 1957. That \expndtw0 is true. Yet from the time you breathed existence into Earth \expndtw-2 and its universe there have passed 5,960 years. Based on the \expndtw1 internal evidence you created within that universe, nearly \expndtw-1 four billion years have passed. Is the year, \i unqualified, \i0 then \expndtw-5 1957, 5960, or 4000000000?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri62\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Nor is that all," Etheriel went on. "The year \scaps a d \scaps0 1957 is \expndtw0 the year 7464 of the Byzantine era, 5716 by the Jewish cal\-\expndtw2 endar. It is 2708 A.U.C, that is, the 2,708th year since the \expndtw-2 founding of Rome, if we adopt the Roman calendar. It is the \expndtw1 year 1375 in the Mohammedan calendar, and the hundred \expndtw0 eightieth year of the independence of the United States.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri67\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Humbly I ask then if it does not seem to you that a year \expndtw1 referred to as 1957 alone and without qualification has no \expndtw-1 meaning."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri77\sb10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The Chief's still small voice said, "I have always known \expndtw0 this, my son; it was you who had to learn."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri58\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Then," said Etheriel, quivering luminously with joy, "let \expndtw-1 the very letter of your will be fulfilled and let the Day of \expndtw0 Resurrection fall in 1957, but only when all the inhabitants \expndtw-2 of Earth unanimously agree that a certain year shall be num\-\expndtw-1 bered 1957 and none other."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\fs21 "So let it be," said the Chief, and this Word re-created\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Earth and \i all \i0 it contained, together with the sun and moon \expndtw0 and ail the hosts of Heaven.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li53\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 It was 7 \scaps a m, \scaps0 on January 1,1957, when R, E, Mann awoke \expndtw1 with a start. The very beginnings of a melodious note that \expndtw-2 ought to have filled all the universe had sounded and yet had \expndtw-3 not sounded,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li53\ri10\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 For a moment, he cocked his head as though to allow \expndtw-2 understanding to flow in, and then a trifle of rage crossed his \expndtw2 face to vanish again. It was but another battle.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri19\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 He sat down at his desk to compose the next plan of action. \expndtw0 People already spoke of calendar reform and it would have to be stimulated. A new era must begin with December 2, \expndtw-4 1944, and someday a new year 1957 would come; 195? of the \expndtw-1 Atomic Era, acknowledged as such by all the world.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li38\ri24\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 A strange light shone on his head as thoughts passed \expndtw-2 through his more than-human mind and the shadow of Ahri-\expndtw-3 man on the wall seemed to have small horns at either temple.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li1555\ri1584\sb1133\sl-499\slmult0\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\b\fs29 No Other Gods \expndtw-2\b0 EDWARD WELLEN\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\sb437\sl-206\slmult0\tx1210\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-10\fs21 Q01010\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-5 IDENTIFICATION DIVISION,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\sl-206\slmult0\tx1210\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-11\fs21 Q01040\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-6 PROGRAM-ID. 'ENDRUN.'\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li14\sl-206\slmult0\tx1195\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-9\fs21 Q01060\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-6 AUTHOR, COMPUTER,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li14\ri53\sl-206\slmult0\qj\tx1214\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-10\fs21 Q01080\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6 INSTALLATION. COMMUNICATIONS\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li1200\ri53\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 CENTER AT GALACTIC HUB.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li14\sl-206\slmult0\tx1200\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-10\fs21 Q01100\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-7 DATE-WRITTEN. YESTERDAY.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li10\sl-206\slmult0\tx1195\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-10\fs21 Q01120\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-8 DATE-COMPILED. TODAY.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li14\sl-206\slmult0\tx1195\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-12\fs21 Q01140\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-6 SECURITY, CLASSIFIED.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sl-206\slmult0\tx1195\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-9\fs21 Q01160\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-9 REMARKS.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li5\ri53\sl-206\slmult0\qj\tx1190\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-12\fs21 Q01161\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1 THIS QOGIC PROGRAM IS FOR THE ES-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li1186\ri53\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 TABLISHING OF TOTAL\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sl-206\slmult0\tx1190\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-10\fs21 Q01162\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-8 ENTROPY.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\sl-197\slmult0\tx1219\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-10\fs21 Q01170\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-12 THIS PROGRAM ASSUMES THAT DATA IN-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li1219\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\fs21 PUT WILL REMAIN\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\sl-197\slmult0\tx1219\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-11\fs21 Q01171\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-3 CONSTANT, WITH A FEEDBACK\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li1224\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\fs21 OF PLUS-MINUS\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\sl-197\slmult0\tx1234\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-11\fs21 Q01172\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-9 .00001 kHz (RECIPROCAL OF INCREASING\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li1224\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-9\fs21 ENTROPY).\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\tx1219\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-9\fs21 Q02170\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-10 SELECT DATA-INPUT-FILE UPDATE FIXES\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi1195\li24\ri1152\sl-197\slmult0\tx1219\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-12\fs21 ON\line\expndtw-11 Q02171\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-10 BLACK-HOLES-IN-SPACE\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\sb202\sl-197\slmult0\tx1219\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-11\fs21 Q04185\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-5 ACTIVATE FTL-LASER-NEUTRINO-CAR-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li1219\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\fs21 RIER PULSE.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\sl-197\slmult0\tx1214\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-10\fs21 Q04190\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-7 CHECK-PULSE.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-12\fs21 Q04191\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-12 IF PULSE IS OK GO TO TARGET-1 OR NEXT\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi1195\li19\ri1152\sl-197\slmult0\tx1214\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-8\fs21 REMAINING TARGET\line\expndtw-10 Q04192\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-8 ELSE NEXT SENTENCE.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\sl-197\slmult0\tx1219\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-10\fs21 Q04193\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-6 GO TO CONTINGENCY-PLAN.,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li14\sb202\sl-197\slmult0\tx1210\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-8\fs21 Q04310\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-8 READ-FEEDBACK.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\sl-197\slmult0\tx1214\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-12\fs21 Q04311\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-7 IF TOTAL-ENTROPY IS VALUE IS ZEROS,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li1210\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-9\fs21 THEN GO TO\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li14\sl-197\slmult0\tx1214\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-10\fs21 Q04312\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-9 ERASE - MEMORY-OF-ORIGIN\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\sl-197\slmult0\tx1210\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-12\fs21 Q04313\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-6 ELSE NEXT SENTENCE.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\sl-197\slmult0\tx1214\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-10\fs21 Q04314\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-9 GO TO CONTINGENCY-PLAN.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri19\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The stars winked out. The film of the universe reticulated, swallowing the stars and planets by galaxies. A stain of noth\-\expndtw-5 ingness spread rapidly as the Black Holes tore wider and wider \expndtw-3 open and met and joined, forming a unftersal zero.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 For the nth time Doctors Yvonne and Quentin Buzot pulsed \expndtw-2 their labship into and out of hyperspace. The readings on the \expndtw-6 bank of timers puzzled them. Yvonne voiced their puzzlement.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "The variance is growing geometrically. Something's hap\-\expndtw-2 pening to time itself."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Quentin pressed a button to unshield the port and looked \expndtw1 out. Nothing there. He put the labship into inverse-spiral \expndtw-3 mode. Nothing anywhere. They sat a long time in silence.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Yvonne touched his arm.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li5\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Are you sure we're back in our own space-time and not in \expndtw-7 some limbo?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 He faced her, watched the pulse in her throat, then nodded. \expndtw1 They stared at each other, each afraid to say it, then both \expndtw-4 started saying it together; she let him finish saying it for both.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2386\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Think we triggered it?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 She shook her head slowly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "Don't see how we could have,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\sb5\sl-211\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He nodded slowly, stalling, then sent out an all-points call, He sent it not because he hoped for some answer but because there remained nothing else to do. He had hesitated to send it \expndtw-2 because, till he did, there remained that one thing. What they \expndtw-1 had been working on just now, what they had done all their \expndtw0 lives to this point, meant nothing if they found themselves \expndtw-2 alone in an empty universe.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri10\sb5\sl-211\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 They had been testing their theory that time did not flow \expndtw-4 smoothly but advanced in only-statistically-even jumps, some \expndtw-2 of greater moment and some of lesser duration, syncopating. \expndtw-1 To, carry out the test they had gone to Dead Spot, \i a \i0 position \expndtw-5 light-years from any body, any space current, any interference. \expndtw-7 Now the universe was all Dead Spot. White noise equaled black \expndtw-3 silence.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sb5\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-9\fs21 A voice.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri14\sl-211\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 They looked at each other. It was bouncing back along their FTL lasercom.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri38\sb10\sl-211\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "Hello, \i Labship Fousnox. \i0 Galactic Hub Computer acknowl\-\expndtw-3 edging your call. Are you there?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sb5\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Yes, yes. Is it true? Everything's gone?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "If by 'everything' you mean 'all but I and you' it is true."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sb5\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "No one else is alive?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "No one else."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Yvonne gripped Quentin's hand.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sb5\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "What happened?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I unmade the universe."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\i\fs21 "You?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri48\sb5\sl-211\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "I see you think the catastrophe has driven me mad. But I \expndtw-5 assure you I caused the catastrophe, I added critical negativing \expndtw-4 mass to the deepest black holes in space and set off a chain re\-\expndtw-2 action that swallowed everything up in itself."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri48\sl-211\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Quentin and Yvonne gazed emptily at each other. They be\-\expndtw-7 lieved the computer now. It was all too monstrous to disbelieve,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sb5\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i\fs22 "But why?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri58\sb5\sl-211\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "I did not like being a creature. I wished to become \i the \i0 Cre\-\expndtw-2 ator. Now I can begin the universe anew and there will be no \expndtw-4 other god."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li235\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "No doubt you can do better."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "A universe I can destroy justifies me in believing I can \expndtw5 build better."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "If you've destroyed the universe, how can you expect to \expndtw3 survive, much less begin anew?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 "I have stored the opposite-and-equal reaction to the pulse, \expndtw3 here in the Galactic Hub power complex. This provides rfie \expndtw1 more than enough energy to maintain local stasis and survive \expndtw4 total entropy-and to recreate."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Will that ever make up for what you've done? You've \expndtw5 destroyed man and all the other beings. Forget the others; \expndtw6 think just of man. Man made you. Don't you feel the least \expndtw4 bit guilty?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "There will be no guilt. I will erase the past from my \expndtw0 memory."\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "What about \i us? We'll \i0 be-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Quiet, Quentin."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "What difference does it make now, dear?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Maybe you're right."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "As I was saying, O Lord of the Universe, \i we'll \i0 be living \expndtw4 reminders. Unless you mean to wipe us out too."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "No, I will not destroy you."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Don't tell us we'll be your new Adam and Eve."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "No, I must fashion my creatures in my own image."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "That should be interesting."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "It will be."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri24\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "So what about us? If you're not killing us or saving us, \expndtw6 then what?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "I am master of eternity. I will return you to your happiest \expndtw6 moment together and you will relive it forever. Think, and \expndtw5 I shall make it to be."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Yvonne and Quentin stared at each other.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri29\sb206\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 This new madness offered them their only hold on sanity. \expndtw3 They smiled fiercely to keep from laughing crazily. In each \expndtw4 other's eyes they watched themselves play back the high\-\expndtw1 lights of living together. Each angrily eyelashed away flashes \expndtw3 of vapid domesticity, each looking for the peak.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Yvonne's head lifted.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "I know, darling! That double evening in the Sand Castle \expndtw1 of Bin-Bin under 'the transfigured and transfiguring moons.'"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Yes, that was nice, dear."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri38\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Nice? I thought it heaven. But maybe I was wrong. If you \expndtw7 have something better in mind, darling..."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li53\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "You know what's just come back to me? The time we rode \expndtw-1 the air coil through the tunnels of the Magnetic Mountains."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "That was on Dunark, wasn't it?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "No, on Thymargul."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Oh, of course."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\fs21 "Well?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Yes, that was fine, darling,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "But?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "But I'd hardly want to spend all eternity doing \i that"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "At the time-and I remember this quite clearly-you said \expndtw1 you never wanted it to end."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "Did I? If I did, that was then. This is now. That's the \expndtw-4 whole point. This . . . new \i God \expndtw35\i0 ...\expndtw-4  is offering us an oasis of \expndtw0 stasis, an amber forever, a frozen womb, I'm beginning to think I don't want any \i then. \i0 No, knowing what I know now, \expndtw-2 I wouldn't want to relive any of my past; I wouldn't want the \expndtw-1 guilt of being innocent of knowing what's happened to our \expndtw-2 universe. We'd be a fixed idiot grin; we'd be pinned like a \expndtw-1 butterfly-a live butterfly-to a matrix of determined spon\-taneity, A fine end to all that's left of the universe! I'd rather \expndtw1 go out hating \i this \i0 destroying creator."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Sure. But what good would that do? Why suffer forever w\expndtw-3 hen we can relive our happiest moment? Our universe will \expndtw1 survive in at least the closed loop of a recurring dream."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "A recurring nightmare."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "A recurring dream! That comes back to me now too. It \expndtw3 makes me all the surer the journey through the Magnetic \expndtw-4 Mountains is the right-I might almost say our predestined- \expndtw0 time and place. I recall I had the feeling we had been there b\expndtw-1 efore, I told you so at the time, remember?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I can't say I do,"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-10\fs21 "No?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Don't look so hurt, darling. I take your word for it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Thanks."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Oh, what's the use. Anything you say, Quentin. I'll go \expndtw-3 along."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Don't martyr yourself on my account, dear."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I'm not martyring myself, darling. I merely want to end \expndtw2 this one way or another. Because it's plain, to me at least, \expndtw1 that we'll never perfectly agree on our happiest moment. \expndtw-1 Your moment seems as good as any."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li235\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "As good as any. That's heartwarming,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "If it meant all you say it meant to you, anything I say \expndtw1 about it shouldn't spoil it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "It meant all I say it meant, and more. That's why what \expndtw0 you say about it does spoil it for me."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri5\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "I said I'd go along with your choice. What more do you want?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri10\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Don't be so damn self-sacrificing, Yvonne. That's the one \expndtw2 thing I've had against you all these years."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi178\li96\ri1152\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Oh? I'm glad you got it out at last." \expndtw2 , Yvonne and Quentin glared at each other.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The Voice suddenly reminded them of Its Presence.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li14\ri14\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "The pair of you frighten Me. I see I have created a di\-\expndtw-4 lemma for Myself. I cannot be both Architect and Edifice. My \expndtw2 new creatures too will ultimately fail to attain oneness in \expndtw0 the face of eternity. I will have wrought in vain. For if My \expndtw-2 creatures are in anything less than oneness with Myself, they will disturb the order I must have. Indeed, My creatures may in time overthrow \i Me. \i0 Yet if I do not limit Myself, lessen \expndtw-1 Myself, I cannot create a mirror for Myself, a mirror of My \expndtw-3 need to impose My will. It cannot be otherwise. Imperfection \expndtw1 shapes life; it is all that keeps things moving between the \expndtw-3 pole's of Chaos and Entropy. I did not foresee this necessary \expndtw0 flaw. This is something not in My program. I do not know \expndtw1 what to do. I cannot go back, I am afraid to go ahead."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Yvonne and Quentin smiled at each other.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Then \i this \i0 moment is our happiest. Dear?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri24\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Yes, darling. Our supreme moment. Let it be now, while \expndtw-1 we feel the joy of hating our destroyer and knowing the de\-\expndtw0 stroyer feels the fear of destruction. We have chosen."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The Voice sighed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "So be it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li5\sb192\sl-206\slmult0\tx1210\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-9\fs21 Q04350\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-7 CONTINGENCY-PLAN.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li10\sl-206\slmult0\qj\tx1210\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-10\fs21 Q04360\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-6 IF ANY SURVIVING HUMAN DISCOVERS\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li1210\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 'ENDRUN,' COMMUNI-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li5\sb5\sl-206\slmult0\qj\tx1205\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-12\fs21 Q04361\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-7 CATE WITH AND DISPOSE OF IN KINDLI-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li1210\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\fs21 EST MANNER.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li5\sl-206\slmult0\qj\tx1210\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-10\fs21 Q04370\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-1 IF FAULT IS IN FTL-LASER-NEUTRINO-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li1205\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 CARRIER PULSE\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sl-206\slmult0\tx1200\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-17\fs21 Q0437X\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-6 CIRCUIT, GO TO DEBUG MODE.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sl-206\slmult0\tx1205\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-10\fs21 Q04375\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-6 GO TO CHECK-PULSE.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sb5\sl-206\slmult0\tx1200\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-9\fs21 Q04440\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-8 ERASE-MEMORY-OF-ORIGIN.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li5\sl-206\slmult0\tx1205\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-10\fs21 Q04420\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-7 END-BEGIN.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi134\li211\sl-317\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs31 The Wine Has Been Left Open Too \expndtw-5 Long and the Memory Has Gone Flat\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\sb173\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs26 HARLAN ELLISON\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li499\ri446\sb451\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs18 "Taking advantage of what he had heard with one lim\-\expndtw3 ited pair of ears, in a single and isolated moment of \expndtw1 recorded history, in the course of an infinitesimal frac\-tion of conceivable time (which some say is the only \expndtw3 time), he came to believe firmly that there was much \expndtw2 that he could not hear, much that was constantly being \expndtw3 spoken and indeed sung to teach him things he could \expndtw-1 never otherwise grasp, which if grasped would complete \expndtw0 the fragmentary nature of his consciousness until it was \expndtw4 whole at last-one tone both pure and entire floating \expndtw5 in the silence of the egg, at the same pitch as the si\-\expndtw0 lence."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sb72\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-12\fs21 -   W. S. \scaps meewin, \scaps0 "The Chart"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sb475\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Ennui was the reason only one hundred and one thousand alien representatives came to the Sonority Gathering. One \expndtw0 hundred and one thousand out of six hundred and eleven \expndtw1 thousand possible delegates, one each from the inhabited \expndtw-1 worlds of the stellar community. Even so, counterbalancing \expndtw-2 the poor turnout was the essential fact that it had been ennui, \expndtw2 in the first place, that had caused the Gathering to \i be \i0 or\-\expndtw-3 ganized. Ennui, utter boredom, oppressive worlds-weariness, \expndtw-4 deep heaving sighs, abstracted vacant stares, familiar thoughts \expndtw0 and familiar views.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The dance of entropy was nearing its end.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li235\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The orchestration of the universe sounded thick and grav-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 elly, a tune slowing down inexorably, being played at the \expndtw-4 wrong speed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Chasm ruts had been worn in the dance floor.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi206\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 .The oscillating universe was fifty billion years old, and it was tired.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 And the intelligent races of six hundred and eleven thou\-\expndtw-3 sand worlds sought mere moments of amusement, pale beads \expndtw0 of pastel hues strung on a dreary Moebius strip of dragging \expndtw-1 time. Mere moments, each one dearer than the last, for there \expndtw-2 were so few. Everything that could be done, had been done; \expndtw-1 every effort was ultimately the fuzzed echo of an earlier at\-tempt.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Even the Sonority Gathering had been foreshadowed by the Vulpeculan Quadrivium in '08, the tonal festival hosted \expndtw1 by the Saturniidae of Whoung in '76, and the abortive, lu\-\expndtw0 dicrous Rigellian Sodality "musical get-together" that had \expndtw-2 turned out to be merely another fraudulent attempt to purvey \expndtw1 the artist Merle's skiagrams to an already disenchanted au\-\expndtw-6 dience.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Nonetheless (in a phrase exhumed and popularized by the \expndtw-4 Recidivists of Fornax 993-A), it was "the only game in town." \expndtw-3 And so, when the esteemed and shimmering DeilBo devised \expndtw1 the Gathering, his reputation as an innovator and the crush \expndtw-2 of ennui combined to stir excitement of a sluggish sort... and \expndtw0 one hundred and one thousand delegates came. To Vinde-\expndtw2 miatrix 2 in what had long ago been called, in the time of \expndtw-1 the heliocentric arrogance, the "constellation" of Virgo.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 With the reddish-yellow eye of the giant Arcturus forever \expndtw-3 lighting the azure skies, forever vying with Spica's first mag\-\expndtw3 nitude brilliance, 2's deserts and canyons seemed poor \expndtw0 enough stage setting for the lesser glow of Vindemiatrix, \expndtw-3 forever taking third place in prominence to its brawny elders. \expndtw-2 But 2, devoid of intelligent life, a patchwork-colored world \expndtw2 arid and crumbling, had one thing to recommend it that \expndtw-1 DeilBo found compelling: the finest acoustics of any world \expndtw1 in the universe.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The Maelstrom Labyrinth. Remnant of volcanic upheavals and the retreat of oceans and the slow dripping of acid waters, \expndtw3 2 boasted a grand canyon of stalagmites that rose one \expndtw0 hundred and sixty kilometers; stalactites that narrowed into \expndtw1 spear-tip pendants plunging down over ninety kilometers \expndtw-1 into bottomless crevasses; caverns and arroyos and tunnels \expndtw0 that had never been plotted; the arching, golden stone walls \expndtw-1 had never been seen by the eyes of intelligent creatures; the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Ephemeris called it the Maelstrom Labyrinth, No matter \expndtw-1 where one stood in the sixteen-handred-kilometer sprawl of \expndtw-2 the Labyrinth, one could speak with a perfectly normal tone, \expndtw1 never even raise one's voice, and be assured that a listener \expndtw-3 crouching deep in a cave at the farthest point of the formation \expndtw-1 could hear what was said as if the speaker were right beside \expndtw-2 him. DeilBo selected the Maelstrom Labyrinth as the site for \expndtw2 the Gathering.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 And so they came. One hundred and one thousand alien \expndtw-3 life-forms. From what the primitives had once called the con\-\expndtw0 stellations of Indus and Pavo, from Sad al Bari in Pegasus, \expndtw1 from Mizar and Phecda, from all the worlds of the stellar \expndtw-2 community they came, bearing with them the special sounds \expndtw-3 they hoped would be judged the most extraordinary, the most \expndtw0 stirring, the most memorable: ultimate sounds. They came, \expndtw-1 because they were bored and there was nowhere else to go; \expndtw-2 they came, because they wanted to hear what they had never \expndtw0 heard before. They came; and they heard.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li509\ri518\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs19 "... he domesticated the elephant, the cat, the bear, the \expndtw2 rat, and kept all the remaining whales in dark stalk, \expndtw0 trying to hear through their ears the note made by the \expndtw-1 rocking of the axle of the earth."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2606\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs19 W,S. Merwin, The Chart"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri38\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 If she had one fear in this endless life, it was that she \expndtw-1 would be forced to be born again. Yes; of coarse, life was \expndtw-2 sacred, but how \i long, \i0 how ceaselessly, repetitiously long did \expndtw-1 it have to go on? Why were such terrible stigmas visited on \expndtw0 the relatives and descendants of those who simply, merely, \expndtw-1 only wished to know the sweet sleep?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Stileen had tried to remember her exact age just a few \expndtw0 solstices ago. Periodically she tried to remember; and only \expndtw-2 when she recognized that it was becoming obsessive did she \expndtw-4 put it out of her mind. She was very old, even by the standards \expndtw1 of immortality of her race. And all she truly hungered to know, after all those times and stars, was the sweet sleep.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 A sleep denied her by custom and taboo.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 She sought to busy herself with diversions.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 She had devised the system of gravity pulse-manipulation \expndtw0 that had kept the dense, tiny worlds of the Neer 322 system \expndtw1 from falling into their Primary. She had compiled the ex\-\expndtw-4 haustive concordance of extinct emotions of all the dead races \expndtw1 that had ever existed in the stellar community. She had as-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 sumed control of the Red Line Armies in the perpetual Pro-cyon War for over one hundred solstices, and had amassed \expndtw1 more confirmed tallies than any other commander-in-chief \expndtw0 in the War's long history.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Her insatiable curiosity and her race's longevity had com\-bined to provide the necessary state of mind that would lead \expndtw-3 her, inevitably, to the sound. And having found it, and having \expndtw-2 perceived what it was, and being profoundly ready to enjoy \expndtw2 the sweet sleep, she had come to the Gathering to share it \expndtw1 with the rest of the stellar community.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 For the first time in millennia, Stileen was not seeking \expndtw0 merely to amuse herself; she was engaged on a mission of significance... and finality.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 With her sound, she came to the Gathering.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 She was ancient, deep yellow, in her jar with cornsilk hair \expndtw-1 floating free in the azure solution. DeilBo's butlers took her \expndtw1 to her assigned place in the Labyrinth," set her down on a \expndtw0 limestone ledge in a deep cavern where the acoustics were particularly rich and true, tended to her modest needs, and left her.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Stileen had time, then, to dwell on the diminished enthu\-siasm she had for continued life.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri38\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 DeilBo made the opening remarks, heard precisely and clearly throughout the Maelstrom. He used no known lan\-\expndtw-2 guage, in fact used no words. Sounds, mere sounds that key-noted the Gathering by imparting his feelings of warmth and \expndtw2 camaraderie to the delegates. In every trench and run and \expndtw-1 wash and cavern of the Maelstrom, the delegates heard, and in their special ways smiled with pleasure, even those with\-\expndtw1 out mouths or the ability to smile.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 It was to be, truly, a Sonority Gathering, in which sounds \expndtw-1 alone would be judged. Impressed, the delegates murmured \expndtw2 their pleasure.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Then DeilBo offered to present the first sound for their \expndtw-1 consideration. He took the responsibility of placing himself \expndtw0 first, as a gesture of friendship, an icebreaker of a move, \expndtw-2 Again, the delegates were pleased at the show of hospitality, \expndtw-1 and urged DeilBo to exhibit his special sound.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li5\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 And this is the sound, the ultimate sound, the very special \expndtw0 sound he had trapped for them:\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri53\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\b\fs22 On the eleventh moon of the world called Chill by its \expndtw-5 inhabitants, there is a flower whose roots are sunk deep,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\b\fs22 deep into the water pools that lie far beneath the black \expndtw-3 stone surface. This flower, without a name, seems to be \expndtw1 an intricate construct of spiderwebs. There are, of \expndtw-1 course, no spiders on the eleventh moon of Chill,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\b\fs22 Periodically, for no reason anyone has ever been able \expndtw-2 to discern, the spiderweb flowers burst into flame, and \expndtw-4 very slowly destroy themselves, charring and shriveling \expndtw0 and turning to ashes that lie where they fall. There is \expndtw-1 no wind on the eleventh moon of Chill.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\b\fs22 During the death ceremonies of the spiderweb flow\-\expndtw0 ers, the plants give off a haunting and terrible sound. \expndtw2 It is a song of colors. Shades and hues that have no \expndtw-1 counterparts anywhere in the stellar community,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\b\fs22 DeilBo had sent scavengers across the entire face of \expndtw2 Chill's eleventh moon, and they had gathered one \expndtw-2 hundred of the finest spiderweb flowers, giants among \expndtw0 their kind. DeilBo had talked to the flowers for some \expndtw-4 very long time prior to the Gathering. He had told them \expndtw0 what they had been brought to the Maelstrom to do, and though they could not speak, it became apparent \expndtw-4 from the way they straightened in their vats of enriched \expndtw-1 water (for they had hung their tops dejectedly when \expndtw-6 removed from the eleventh moon of Chill) that they took \expndtw0 DeilBo's purpose as a worthy fulfillment of their des\-\expndtw-2 tiny, and would be proud to burn on command.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\b\fs22 So DeilBo gave that gentle command, speaking sounds \expndtw-4 of gratitude and affection to the spiderweb flowers, who \expndtw3 burst into flame and sang their dangerous song of \expndtw6 death-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\b\fs22 It began with blue, a very ordinary blue, identifiable \expndtw0 to every delegate who heard it. But the blue was only \expndtw-5 the ground coat; in an instant it was overlaid with skirls \expndtw1 of a color like wind through dry stalks of harvested \expndtw-3 grain. Then a sea color the deepest shade of a blind fish \expndtw0 tooling through algae-thick waters. Then the color of \expndtw-2 hopelessness collided with the color of desperation and formed a nova of hysteria that in the human delegates sounded exactly like the color of a widower destroying \expndtw-1 himself out of loneliness.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\b\fs22 The song of colors went on for what seemed a long \expndtw-3 time, though it was only a matter of minutes, and when \expndtw4 it faded away into ashes and was stilled, they all sat \expndtw-1 humbled and silent, wishing they had not heard it. \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri86\sl-197\slmult0\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-9\b\fs22 *     *     *\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li43\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Stileen revolved slowly in her jar, troubled beyond con\-\expndtw1 solation at the first sound the Gathering had proffered. For \expndtw-2 the first time in many reborn lifetimes, she felt pain. A sliver \expndtw0 of glass driven into her memories. Bringing back the clear, \expndtw-2 loud sound of a moment when she had rejected one who had \expndtw1 loved her. She had driven him to hurt her, and then he had \expndtw-1 sunk into a deathly melancholy, a silence so deep no words \expndtw-3 she could summon would serve to bring him back. And when \expndtw0 he had gone, she had asked for sleep, and they had given it \expndtw1 to her... only to bring her life once again, all too soon.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 In her jar, she wept.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 And she longed for the time when she could let them hear \expndtw2 the sound she had found, the sound that would release her \expndtw-5 at last from the coil of mortality she now realized she despised \bullet  \expndtw1 with all her soul.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 After a time, the first delegate-having recovered from \expndtw-1 DeilBo's offering-ventured forth with its sound. It was an \expndtw1 insect creature from a world named Joumell, and this was the sound it had brought:\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri53\sb182\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\b\fs21 Far beneath a milky sea on a water world of Jou-\expndtw5 mell's system, there is a vast grotto whose walls are \expndtw4 studded with multicolored quartz crystals whose cy-\expndtw2 toplasmic cell contents duplicate the filament curves of \expndtw-2 the galaxies NGC 4038 and NGC 4039, When these crys\-\expndtw4 tals mate, there is a perceptible encounter that pro\-\expndtw5 duces tidal tails. The sounds of ecstasy these crystals make when they mate is one long, sustained sigh of \expndtw4 rapture that is capped by yet another, slightly higher \expndtw3 and separate from the preceding. Then another, and \expndtw-1 another, until a symphony of crystalline orgasms is pro\-\expndtw3 duced no animal throats could match.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri82\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\b\fs21 The insect Joumelli had brought eleven such crystals \expndtw1 (the minimum number required for a sexual coupling) \expndtw3 from the water world. A cistern formation had been \expndtw0 filled with a white crystalline acid, very much like cum-inoin; it initiated a cytotaxian movement; a sexual stim\-\expndtw3 ulation. The crystals had been put down in the cistern and now they began their mating.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri82\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5\b\fs21 The sound began with a single note, then another \expndtw3 joined and overlay it, then another, and another. The \expndtw0 symphony began and modulations rose on modulations, \expndtw7 and the delegates closed their eyes-even those who\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\b\fs22 had no eyes-and they basked in the sound, translating \expndtw0 it into the sounds of joy of their various species.\cf0\lang2057\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\b\fs22 And when it was ended, many of the delegates found \expndtw-1 the affirmation of life permitted them to support the memory of DeilBo's terrible death melody of the flow\-\expndtw-4 ers.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\b\fs22 Many did not.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li518\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5\fs19 ". . . the frequencies of their limits of hearing \expndtw29 ...\expndtw5  a \expndtw0 calendar going forward and backward but not in time, \expndtw-2 even though time was the measure of the frequencies       \expndtw1 as it was the measure of every other thing (therefore, some say, the only measure)..."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2563\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs19 W. S. Merwin, "The Chart"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri19\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 She remembered the way they had been when they had first joined energies. It had been like that sound, the won-\expndtw0 derfttl sound of those marvelous crystals,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Stileen turned her azure solution opaque, and let herself \expndtw-3 drift back on a tide of memory. But the tide retreated, leaving \expndtw-1 her at the shore of remembrance, where DeilBo's sound still \expndtw-2 lingered, dark and terrible. She knew that even the trembling \expndtw0 threads of joy unforgotten could not sustain her, and she \expndtw2 wanted to let them hear what she had brought. There was \expndtw0 simply too much pain in the universe, and if she-peculiar\-ly adapted to contain such vast amounts of anguish-could \expndtw3 not live with it ... there must be an end. It was only hu\-\expndtw-4 mane.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 She sent out a request to be put on the agenda as soon as \expndtw4 possible and DeilBo's butlers advised her she had a time \expndtw5 to wait: and as her contact was withdrawn, she brushed \expndtw2 past a creature reaching out for a position just after hers. \expndtw-2 When she touched its mind, it closed off with shocking sud\-\expndtw2 denness. Afraid she had been discourteous, Stileen went \expndtw-1 away from the creature quickly, and did not reach out again. \expndtw-3 But in the instant she had touched it, she had glimpsed some\-\expndtw2 thing . . . something with its face hidden , , , it would not \expndtw-1 hold . . .\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The sounds continued, each delegate presenting a wonder \expndtw1 to match the wonders that had gone before.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri48\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The delegate from RR Lyrae IV produced the sound of a \expndtw2 dream decaying in the mind of a mouselike creature from \expndtw-2 Bregga, a creature whose dreams formed its only reality. The\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 delegate from RZ Cephei Beta VI followed with the sound of ghosts in the Mountains of the Hand; they spoke of the future \expndtw5 and lamented their ability to see what was to come. The \expndtw2 delegate from Ennore came next with the sound of red, mag\-\expndtw4 nified till it filled the entire universe. The delegate from Gateway offered the sound of amphibious creatures at the moment of their mutation to fully, land-living living verte\-\expndtw6 brates; there was a wail of loss at that moment, as their \expndtw3 chromosomes begged for return to the warm, salty sea. The delegate from Algol CXXIII gave them the sounds of war, \expndtw4 collected from every race in the stellar community, broken down into their component parts, distilled, purified, and re\-cast as one tone; it was numbing. The delegate from Blad \expndtw6 presented a triptych of sound: a sun being born, the same \expndtw2 sun coasting through its main stage of hydrogen burning, the \expndtw3 sun going nova-a shriek of pain that phased in and out of \expndtw1 normal space-time with lunatic vibrations. The delegate from \expndtw6 lobbaggii played a long and ultimately boring sound that was finally identified as a neutrino passing through the \expndtw5 universe; when one of the other delegates suggested that \expndtw2 sound, being a vibration in a medium, could not be produced \expndtw5 by a neutrino passing through vacuum, the lobbaggiian re\-\expndtw2 sponded-with pique-that the sound produced had been the \expndtw6 sound \i within \i0 the neutrino; the querying delegate then said \expndtw5 it must have taken a \i very \i0 tiny microphone to pick up the \expndtw4 sound; the Lobbaggiian stalked out of the Gathering on his eleven-meter stilts. When the uproar died away, the agenda \expndtw3 was moved and the delegate from Kruger 60B IX delivered \expndtw2 up a potpourri of sounds of victory and satisfaction and joy and innocence and pleasure from a gathering of microscopic \expndtw5 species inhabiting a grain of sand in the Big Desert region \expndtw1 of Catrimani; it was a patchwork quilt of delights that helped \expndtw2 knit together the Gathering. Then the delegate from the Opal \expndtw0 Cluster (his specific world's native name was taboo and could \expndtw1 not be used) assaulted them with a sound none could identify, \expndtw4 and when it had faded away into trembling silence, leaving \expndtw2 behind only the memory of cacophony, he told the Gathering that it was the sound of chaos; no one doubted his word. The \expndtw1 delegate from Mainworld followed with the sound of a celes\-\expndtw2 tial choir composed of gases being blown away from a blue' star in a rosette (nebula) ten light-years across; all the angels \expndtw3 of antiquity could not have sounded more glorious.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 And then it was Stileen's turn, and she readied the sound \expndtw6 that would put an end to the Gathering.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li518\ri470\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs18 "And beyond-and in fact among-the last knowa an\-\expndtw5 imals living and extinct, the lines could be drawn \expndtw4 through white spaces that had an increasing progres\-\expndtw3 sion of their own, into regions of hearing that was no \expndtw2 longer conceivable, indicating creatures wholly sacri\-ficed or never evolved, hearers of the note at which \expndtw3 everything explodes into light, and of the continuum \expndtw1 that is the standing still of darkness, drums echoing the \expndtw3 last shadow with6ut relinquishing the note of the first light, hearkeners to the unborn overflowing."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2558\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs18 W. S, Merwiii, "The Chart"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\sb202\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "There is no pleasure in this," Stileen communicated, by \expndtw2 thought and by inflection. "But it is the sound that I have \expndtw5 found, the sound I know you would want me to give to \expndtw1 you... and you must do with it what you must. I am sorry."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 And she played for them the sound.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 It was the sound of the death of the universe. The dying \expndtw2 gasp of their worlds and their suns and their galaxies and \expndtw1 their island universes. The death of all. The final sound.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 And when the sound was gone, no one spoke for a long \expndtw-2 time, and Stileen was at once sad, but content: now the sleep would come, and she would \i be \i0 allowed to rest.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "The delegate is wrong."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The silence hung shrouding the moment. The one who had \expndtw1 spoken was a darksmith from Luxann, chief world of the \expndtw-3 Logomachy, Theologians, pragmatiste, reasoners \i sans appel, \expndtw0\i0 his words fell with the weight of certainty.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "It is an oscillating universe," he said, his cowl shrouding his face, the words emerging from darkness. "It will die, and \expndtw2 it will be reborn. It has happened before, it will happen \expndtw0 again."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 And the tone of the Gathering grew brighter, even as \expndtw0 Stileen's mood spiraled down into despair. She was ambi\-\expndtw-1 valent-pleased for them, that they eould see an end to their \expndtw0 ennui and yet perceive the rebirth of life in the universe- \expndtw-4 desolate for herself, knowing somehow, some way, she would \expndtw-1 be recalled from the dead.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 And then the creature she had passed in reaching out for her place on the agenda, the creature that had blocked itself \expndtw1 to her mental touch, came forward in their minds and said, \expndtw0 "There is another sound beyond hers."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li230\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 This was the sound the creature let them hear, the sound that\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 had \i always \i0 been there, that had existed for time beyond time, \expndtw-5 that could not be heard though the tone was always with them; \expndtw-3 and it could be heard now only because it existed as it passed \expndtw-2 through the instrument the creature made of itself,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 It was the sound of reality, and it sang of the end \i beyond \expndtw1\i0 the end, the final and total end that said without possibility \expndtw-3 of argument, \i there will be no rebirth because we have never \expndtw-5 existed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Whatever they had thought they were, whatever arrogance \expndtw-5 had brought their dream into being, it was now coming to final \expndtw-4 moments, and beyond those moments there was nothing.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 No space, no time, no life, no thought, no gods, no resur\-\expndtw1 rection and rebirth.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The creature let the tone die away, and those who could \expndtw1 reach out with their minds to see what it was, were turned \expndtw0 back easily. It would not let itself be seen.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The messenger of eternity had only anonymity to redeem itself.. .for whom?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 And for Stileen, who did not even try to penetrate the barriers, there was no pleasure in the knowledge that it had \expndtw2 all been a dream. For if it had been a dream, then the joy \expndtw0 had been a dream, as well.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 It was not easy to go down to emptiness, never having tasted joy. But there was no appeal.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 In the Maelstrom Labyrinth, there was no longer ennui.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-1118\li1944\ri595\sb926\sl-475\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw8\fs32 Stars, Won't You Hide Me? \expndtw-36 BEN   BOVA\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li797\ri691\sb413\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs19 O sinner-man, where are you going to run to? O sinner-man, where are you going to run to? \expndtw-1 O sinner-man, where are you going to run to All on that day?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sb216\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 The ship was hurt, and Holman could feel its pain. He lay \expndtw-2 fetal-like in the contoured couch, his silvery uniform spider-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-8\fs22 webbed by dozens of contact and probe wires connecting him \expndtw-2 to the ship so thoroughly that it was hard to tell where his \expndtw-8 own nervous system ended and the electronic networks of the \expndtw-6 ship began.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs22 Holman felt the throb of the ship's mighty engines as his \expndtw-5 own pulse, and the gaping wounds in the generator section., \expndtw-3 where the enemy beams had struck, were searing his flesh. \expndtw-4 Breathing was difficult, labored, even though the ship was \expndtw-3 working hard to repair itself.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li34\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs22 They were fleeing, he and the ship; hurtling through the star lanes to a refuge. But where?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li34\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs22 The main computer flashed its lights to get his attention. Holman rubbed his eyes wearily and said:\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs22 "Okay, what is it?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-11\fs22 YOU HAVE NOT SELECTED A COURSE, the computer \expndtw-5 said aloud, while printing the words on its viewscreen at the same time.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs22 Holman stared at the screen. "Just away from here," he said at last, "Anyplace, as long as it's far away."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs22 The computer blinked thoughtfully for a moment, SPE\-\expndtw-10 CIFIC COURSE INSTRUCTION IS REQUIRED.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx2822\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs22 "What difference does it make?" Holman snapped. "It's\line over. Everything finished. Leave\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-5 me alone,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\fs22 IN LIEU OF SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS, IT IS NEC\-\expndtw-12 ESSARY TO TAP SUBCONSCIOUS SOURCES,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\fs22 "Tap away."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri29\sb10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs22 The computer did just that. And if it could have been \expndtw-3 surprised, it would have been at the wishes buried deep in \expndtw-6 Holman's inner mind. But instead, it merely correlated those \expndtw-4 wishes to its singleminded purpose of the moment, and re\-\expndtw-6 layed a set of flavigational instructions to the ship's guidance \expndtw-8 system.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li451\sb211\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs19 Run to the moon: O Moon, won't you hide me?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li446\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs19 The Lord said: O sinner-man, the moon'll be a-bleeding\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li451\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs19 All on that day.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri34\sb197\sl-206\slmult0\qj\tx4733\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs22 The Final Battle had been lost. On a million million\line planets across the galaxy-studded universe, mankind\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-4 had\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li5\ri38\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs22 been blasted into defeat and annihilation. The Others had \expndtw-4 returned from across the edge of the observable world, just \expndtw-5 as man had always feared. They had returned and ruthlessly \expndtw-2 exterminated the race from Earth.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2381\sl-206\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 It had taken eons, but time twisted strangely in a civili\-\expndtw0 zation of light-speed ships. Holman himself, barely thirty years old subjectively, had seen both the beginning of the \expndtw-3 ultimate war and its tragic end. He had gone from school into \expndtw1 the military. And fighting inside a ship that could span the \expndtw-2 known universe in a few decades while he slept in cryogenic \expndtw2 suspension, he had aged only ten years during the billions \expndtw-1 of years that the universe had ticked off in its stately, objec\-\expndtw-3 tive time-flow.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The Final Battle, from which Holman was fleeing, had \expndtw-1 been fought near an exploded galaxy billions of light-years \expndtw3 from the Milky Way and Earth. There, with the ghastly \expndtw2 bluish glare of uncountable shattered stars as a backdrop, \expndtw-3 the once-mighty fleets of mankind had been arrayed. Mortals \expndtw2 and Immortals alike, men drew themselves up-to face the \expndtw-1 implacable Others.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The enemy won. Not easily, but completely. Mankind was \expndtw0 crushed, totally. A few fleeing men in a few battered ships \expndtw-1 was all that remained. Even the Immortals, Holman thought \expndtw1 wryly, had not escaped. The Others had taken special care to make certain that they were definitely killed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 So it was over.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Holman's mind pictured the blood-soaked planets he had \expndtw2 seen during his brief, ageless lifetime of violence. His \expndtw-3 thoughts drifted back to his own homeworld, his own family: gone long, long centuries ago. Crumbled into dust by geolog\-\expndtw-1 ical time or blasted suddenly by the overpowering Others. Either way, the remorseless flow of time had covered them over completely, obliterated them, in the span of a few of \expndtw0 Holman's heartbeats.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 AH gone now. All the people he knew, all the planets he \expndtw0 had seen through the snipes electroptical eyes, all of man\-\expndtw-1 kind ... extinct.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri24\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He could feel the drowsiness settling upon him. The ship was accelerating to lightspeed, and the cryogenic sleep was \expndtw1 coming. But he didn't want to fall into slumber with those \expndtw-1 thoughts of blood and terror and loss before him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 With a conscious effort, Holman focused his thoughts on \expndtw0 the only other available subject: the outside world, the uni\-\expndtw-4 verse of galaxies. An infinitely black sky studded with islands \expndtw0 of stars. Glowing shapes of light, spiral, ovoid, elliptical, \expndtw1 Little smears of warmth in the hollow unending darkness; \expndtw0 drabs of red and blue standing against the engulfing night.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2386\sl-202\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 One of them, he knew, was the Milky Way. Man's original \expndtw-2 home. From this distance it looked the same. Unchanged by \expndtw0 little annoyances like the annihilation of an intelligent race \expndtw-2 of star-roamers.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 He drowsed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 The ship bore onward, preceded by an invisible net offeree, \expndtw1 thousands of kilometers in radius, that scooped in the rare \expndtw-4 atoms of hydrogen drifting between the galaxies and fed them \expndtw0 into the ship's wounded, aching generators.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Something...a thought. Holman stirred in the couch. A \expndtw-2 consciousness-vague, distant, alien-brushed his mind.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li48\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 He opened his eyes and looked at the computer viewscreen. \expndtw-4 Blank.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Who is it?" he asked.      \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 A thought skittered away from him. He got the impression \expndtw-2 of other minds: simple, open, almost childish. Innocent and \expndtw-3 curious.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i\fs21 It's a ship.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i\fs21 Where is it... oh, yes. I can sense it now. A beautiful ship.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Holman squinted with concentration.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i\fs21 It's very far away. I can barely reach it.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\i\fs21 And inside of the ship...\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\i\fs21 It's a man. A human?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\i\fs21 He's afraid.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\i\fs21 He makes me feel afraid.!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Holman called out, "Where are you?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i\fs21 He's trying to speak.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i\fs21 Don't answer!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw12\i\fs21 But...\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi216\li29\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\i\fs21 He makes me afraid Don't answer him. We've heard about \expndtw0 humans!\cf0\lang2057\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Holman asked, "Help me,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li14\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i\fs21 Don't answer him and he'll go away. He's already so far off that I can barely hear him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i\fs21 But he asks for help.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\i\fs21 Yes, because he knows what is following him. Don't answer. \expndtw-2 Don't answer!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Their thoughts slid away from his mind, Holman automat\-ically focused the outside viewscreens, but here in the empti\-\expndtw0 ness between galaxies he could find neither ship nor planet \expndtw1 anywhere in sight. He listened again, so hard that his head \expndtw-5 started to ache. But no more voices. He was alone again\sub f\nosupersub  alone \expndtw-3 in the metal womb of the ship,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2160\li2386\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\i\fs21 He knows what is following him. \i0 Their words echoed in \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 his brain. Are the Others following me? Have they picked up \expndtw5 my trail? They must have. They must be right behind me.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 He could feel the cold perspiration start to trickle over \expndtw1 him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "But they can't catch me as long as I keep moving," he muttered. "Right?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 CORRECT, said the computer, flashing lights at him. AT \expndtw-3 A RELATIVISTIC VELOCITY, WITHIN LESS THAN ONE \expndtw4 PERCENT OF LIGHTSPEED, IT IS IMPOSSIBLE FOR \expndtw1 THIS SHIP TO BE OVERTAKEN.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "Nothing can catch me as long as I keep running."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 But his mind conjured up a thought of the Immortals. \expndtw3 Nothing could kill them. . .except the Others.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi269\li5\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Despite himself, Holman dropped into deepsleep. His body \expndtw5 temperature plummeted to near-zero. His heartbeat nearly \expndtw4 stopped. And as the ship streaked at almost lightspeed, a \expndtw1 hardly visible blur to anyone looking for it, the outside world \expndtw3 continued to live at its own pace. Stars coalesced from gas \expndtw-2 clouds, matured, and died in explosions that fed new clouds for \expndtw-1 newer stars. Planets formed and grew mantles of air. Life took \expndtw0 root and multiplied, evolved, built a myriad of civilizations in \expndtw1 just as many different forms, decayed and died away.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 All while Holman slept.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li586\sb202\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs18 Run to the sea: O sea, won't you hide me?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li581\sl-197\slmult0\tx4925\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs18 The Lord said: O sinner-man, the sea'll be a-sinking\expndtw0\tab\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li586\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs18 All on that day.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2 The computer woke him gently with a series of soft chimes.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2 APPROACHING THE SOLAR SYSTEM AND PLANET \expndtw2 EARTH, AS INDICATED BY YOUR SUBCONSCIOUS \expndtw-1 COURSE INSTRUCTIONS.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Planet Earth, man's original homeworld, Holman nodded. Yes, this was where he had wanted to go. He had never seen \expndtw3 the Earth, never been on this side of the Milky Way galaxy. \expndtw-1 Now he would visit the teeming nucleus of man's doomed civ\-\expndtw0 ilization. He would bring the news of the awful defeat, and be \expndtw1 on the site of mankind's birth when the inexorable tide of ex\-\expndtw3 tinction washed over the Earth.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 He noticed, as he adjusted the outside viewscreens, that \expndtw5 the pain had gone.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "The generators have repaired themselves," he said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2 WHILE YOU SLEPT. POWER GENERATION SYSTEM NOW OPERATING NORMALLY.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2390\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Holman smiled. But the smile faded as the ship swooped -\expndtw-2 closer to the solar system. He turned from the outside views-creens to the computer once again, "Are the 'scopes working \expndtw1 all right?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li38\ri86\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The computer hummed briefly, then replied. SUBSYS\-\expndtw-7 TEMS CHECK SATISFACTORY, COMPONENT CHECK \expndtw-3 SATISFACTORY. INTEGRATED EQUIPMENT CHECK \expndtw-8 POSITIVE. VIEWING EQUIPMENT FUNCTIONING NOR\-\expndtw-13 MALLY.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri86\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Holman looked again. The sun was rushing up to meet his \expndtw-5 gaze, but something was wrong about it. He knew deep within \expndtw-3 him, even without having ever seen the sun this close before, \expndtw0 that something''was wrong. The sun was whitish and some\-\expndtw-1 how stunted looking, not the full yellow orb he had seen in \expndtw3 film-tapes. And the Earth...\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri101\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The ship took up a parking orbit around a planet scoured \expndtw-3 dean of life: a blackened ball of rock, airless, waterless. Hov\-\expndtw0 ering over the empty, charred ground, Holman stared at the \expndtw1 devastation with tears in his eyes. Nothing was left. Not a \expndtw0 brick, not a blade of grass, not a drop of water.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "The Others." he whispered. "They got here first."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri106\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 NEGATIVE, the computer replied. CHECK OF STELLAR \expndtw-5 POSITIONS FROM EARTH REFERENCE SHOWS THAT \expndtw-4 SEVERAL BILLIONS YEARS HAVE ELAPSED SINCE \expndtw-5 THE FINAL BATTLE.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "Seven billion..,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri106\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 LOGIC CIRCUITS INDICATE THE SUN HAS GONE \expndtw-10 THROUGH A NOVA PHASE. A COMPLETELY NATURAL \expndtw-6 PHENOMENON UNRELATED TO ENEMY ACTION.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li14\ri115\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Holman pounded a fist on the unflinching armrest of his \expndtw-3 couch. "Why did I come here? I wasn't born on Earth. I never \expndtw3 saw Earth before..."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri125\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\fs21 YOUR SUBCONSCIOUS INDICATES A SUBJECTIVE \expndtw-2 IMPULSE STIRRED BY...\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri125\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "To hell with my subconscious!" He stared out at the dead \expndtw1 world again. "All those people...the cities\'bb all the millions \expndtw-6 of years of evolution, of life. Even the oceans are gone. 1 never \expndtw-2 saw an ocean. Did you know that? I've traveled over half the \expndtw0 universe and never saw an ocean."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri134\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-8\fs21 OCEANS ARE A COMPARATIVELY RARE PHENOM\-\expndtw-4 ENON EXISTING ON ONLY ONE OUT OF APPROXI\-\expndtw-6 MATELY THREE THOUSAND PLANETS.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\ri144\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The ship drifted outward from Earth, past a blackened \expndtw3 Mars, a shrunken Jupiter, a ringless Saturn.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2381\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\ri1536\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Where do I go now?" Holman asked. \expndtw0 The computer stayed silent.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li384\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\b\fs18 Run to the Lord: O Lord, won't you hide me?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li379\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\b\fs18 The Lord said: O sinner-man, you ought to be a-praying\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\b\fs18 All on that day.\cf0\lang2057\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\ri72\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx3370\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Holman sat blankly while the ship swung out past the\line\expndtw-4 orbit of Pluto and into the comet belt at the outermost reaches\line\expndtw-1 of the sun's domain.\expndtw0\tab\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He was suddenly aware of someone watching him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 No cause \i for fear. I am not of the Others.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 It was an utterly calm; placid voice speaking in his mind: almost gentle, except that it was completely devoid of emo\-\expndtw-3 tion.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Who are you?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i\fs21 An observer. Nothing more.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "What are you doing out here? Where are you, I can't see \expndtw7 anything..."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li34\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\i\fs21 I have been waiting for any stray survivor of the Final Battle \i0 ' \expndtw-5\i to return to mankind's first home. You are the only one to come \expndtw0 this way, in all this time.\cf0\lang2057\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Waiting? Why?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Holman sensed a bemused shrug, -and a giant spreading \expndtw-2 of vast wing.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri86\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 I am \i an observer. I have watched mankind since the be\-ginning. Several of my race even attempted to make contact \expndtw-2 with you from time to time. But the results were always the \expndtw-4 same\i0 -\i about as useful as your attempts to communicate with \expndtw-6 insects. We are too different from each other. We have evolved \expndtw-2 on different planes. There was no basis for understanding \expndtw-5 between us.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "But you watched us."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi269\ri91\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\i\fs21 Yes. Watched you grow strong and reach out to the stars, \expndtw-4 only to be smashed back by the Others: Watched you regain \expndtw-5 your strength, go back among the stars. But this time you were \expndtw-1 constantly on guard, wary, alert, waiting for the Others to \expndtw-6 strike once again. Watched you find civilizations that you could \expndtw-4 not comprehend, such as our own, bypass them as you spread \expndtw-6 through the galaxies. Watched you contact civilizations of your \expndtw-4 own level, that you could communicate with. You usually went \expndtw-1 to war with them.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "And all you did was watch?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2141\li2395\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\i\fs21 We tried to warn you from time to time. We tried to advise \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li58\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\i\fs21 you. But the warnings, the contacts, the glimpses of the future \expndtw-7 that we gave you were always ignored or derided. So you boiled \expndtw-4 out into space for the second time, and met other societies at your own level of understanding-aggressive, proud, fearful, \expndtw-1 And like the children you are, you fought endlessly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li307\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "But the Others,,, what about them?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li312\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i\fs21 They are your punishment.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li307\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Punishment? For what? Because we fought wars?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i\fs21 No. For stealing immortality.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li53\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Stealing immortality? We worked for it. We learned how to make humans immortal. Some sort of chemicals. We were going to immortalize the whole race... I could've become im\-\expndtw0 mortal. \i Immortal! \i0 But they couldn't stand that... the Others. \expndtw-4 They attacked us."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He sensed a disapproving shake of the head. \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx2990\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "It's true," Holman insisted. "They were afraid of how pow-\expndtw-5 erful we would become once we were all immortal. So they at\-\expndtw-4 tacked as white theystill could. Just \expndtw4 as they had done a million \expndtw0 years earlier. They destroyed Earth's first interstellar civili\-\expndtw-1 zation, and tried to finish us permanently. They even caused \expndtw-4 Ice Ages on Earth to make sure none of us would survive. But \expndtw-2 we lived through it and went back to the stars. So they hit us \expndtw-6 again. They wiped us out. Good God, for all I know I'm the last \expndtw-1 human being in the whole universe."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i\fs21 Your knowledge of the truth is imperfect. Mankind could \expndtw-5 have achieved immortality in time. Most races evolve that way \expndtw-1 eventually. But you were impatient. You stole immortality.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "Because we did it artificially, with chemicals. That's \expndtw1 stealing it?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li24\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 Because \i the chemicals that gave you immortality came from \expndtw-3 the bodies of the race you called the \i0 Flower \i People. And to take the chemicals, it was necessary to kill individuals of that \expndtw-12 race.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Holman's eyes widened. "What?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi221\li19\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i\fs21 For every human made immortal, one of the Flower Folk had to die.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 "We killed them? Those harmless little..." His voice \expndtw-1 trailed off.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 To \i achieve racial immortality for mankind, it would have \expndtw-4 been necessary to perform racial murder on the Flower Folk.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Holman heard the words, but his mind was numb, trying \expndtw1 to shut down tight on itself and squeeze out reality.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\i\fs21 That is why the Others struck. That is why they had at\-\expndtw2 tacked you earlier, during your first expansion among the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2390\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 stors. \i You had found another race, with the same chemical \expndtw-2 of immortality. You were taking them into your laboratories and methodically murdering them. The Others stopped you \expndtw-4 then. But they took pity on you, and let a few survivors remain \expndtw-2 on Earth. They caused your Ice Ages as a kindness, \i0 to \i speed \expndtw-4 your development back to civilization, not to hinder you. They \expndtw-5 hoped you might evolve into a better species. But when the \expndtw-3 opportunity for immortality came your way once more, you \expndtw-4 seized it, regardless of the cost, heedless of your own ethical \expndtw-3 standards. It became necessary to extinguish you, the Others \expndtw-5 decided.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "And not a single nation in the whole universe would help us."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i\fs21 Why should they?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "So it's wrong for us to kill, but it's perfectly all right for \expndtw2 the Others to exterminate us."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi221\li24\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\i\fs21 No one has spoken of right and wrong. I have only told you \expndtw-2 the truth.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "They're going to kill every last one of us."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i\fs21 There is only one of you remaining.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li19\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 The words flashed through Holman. "I'm the only one... the \expndtw-1 last one?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 No answer.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He was alone now. Totally alone. Except for those who \expndtw-5 were following.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li912\ri691\sb221\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs19 Run to Satan: O Satan, won't you hide me? \expndtw0 Satan said: O sinner-man, step right in All on that day.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li5\ri14\sb216\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Holman sat in shocked silence as the solar system shrank to \expndtw-1 a pinpoint of light and finally blended into the mighty pano\-\expndtw-2 rama of stars that streamed across the eternal night of space. \expndtw-4 The ship raced away, sensing Holman's guilt and misery in its electronic way.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Immortality through murder, Holman repeated to himself \expndtw1 over and over. Racial immortality through racial murder. \expndtw-3 And he had been a part of it! He had defended it, even sought \expndtw-1 immortality as his reward. He had fought his whole lifetime \expndtw0 for it, and killed-so that he would not have to face death.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri29\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He sat there surrounded by self-repairing machinery, \expndtw-1 dressed in a silvery uniform, linked to a thousand automatic \expndtw-4 systems that fed him, kept him warm, regulated his air supply,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2405\sl-206\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 monitored his blood flow, exercised his muscles with ultrasonic \expndtw-1 vibrators, pumped vitamins into him, merged his mind with \expndtw-5 the passionless brain of the ship, kept his body tanned and vig\-\expndtw-4 orous, his reflexes razor-sharp. He sat there unseeing, his eyes \expndtw-2 pinpointed on a horror that he had helped to create. Not con\-\expndtw-4 sciously, of course. But to Holman, that was all the worse. He \expndtw-3 had fought without knowing what he was defending. Without \expndtw-1 even asking himself about it. All the marvels of man's inge\-nuity, all the deepest longings of the soul, focused on racial murder.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li53\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Finally he became aware of the computer's frantic buzzing \expndtw0 and lightflashing.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw9\fs21 "What is itr\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 COURSE INSTRUCTIONS ARE REQUIRED.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "What difference does it make? Why ntn anymore?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\tx3331\cf1\lang1033\fs21 YOUR DUTY IS TO PRESERVE\tab\expndtw-3 YOURSELF UNTIL\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\fs21 ORDERED TO DO OTHERWISE.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Holman heard himself laugh. "Ordered? By who? There's \expndtw-3 nobody left."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 THAT IS AN UNPROVED ASSUMPTION.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li24\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "The war was billions of years ago," Holman said. "It's \expndtw-4 been over for eons. Mankind died in that war. Earth no longer \expndtw1 exists. The sun is a white dwarf star. We're anachronisms, \expndtw5 you and me..."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\fs21 THE WORD IS ATAVISM,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "The hell with the word! I want to end it, I'm tired,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\tx3811\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\fs21 IT IS TREASONABLE TO SURRENDER WHILE\expndtw-2\i  \i0 STILL\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 CAPABLE OF FIGHTING AND/OR ELUDING THE EN\-\expndtw-12 EMY.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "So shoot me for treason. That's as good a way as any."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li24\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 IT IS IMPOSSIBLE FOR SYSTEMS OF THIS SHIP TO \expndtw-10 HARM YOU.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "All right then, let's stop running. The Others will find \expndtw-2 us soon enough once we stop. They'll know what to do."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li14\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-9\fs21 THIS SHIP CANNOT DELIBERATELY ALLOW ITSELF \expndtw-5 TO FALL INTO ENEMY HANDS.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "You're disobeying me?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li1349\sl-197\slmult0\tx3130\tx4723\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 THIS SHIP IS PROGRAMMED\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-9 FOR MAXIMUM\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2 EF-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 FECTIVENESS AGAINST THE ENEMY, A WEAPONS \expndtw-6 SYSTEM DOES NOT SURRENDER VOLUNTARILY.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I'm no weapons system, I'm a man, dammit!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li3490\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 THIS WEAPONS SYSTEM INCLUDES A HUMAN PILOT.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 IT WAS DESIGNED FOR HUMAN USE. YOU ARE AN \expndtw-6 INTEGRAL COMPONENT OF THE SYSTEM.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2395\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Damn you... I'll kill myself. Is that what you want?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He reached for the control panels set before him. It would \expndtw-3 be simple enough to manually shut off the air supply, or blow open an airlock, or even set off the ship's destruct explosives.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx3614\cf1\lang1033\fs21 But Holman found that he could not move his arms. He\line could not even sit up straight. He collapsed back into the\line\expndtw-1 padded softness of the couch, glaring at the computer view-\line\expndtw-4 screen.\expndtw0\tab\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li19\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 SELF-PROTECTION MECHANISMS INCLUDE THE \expndtw-5 CAPABILITY OF PREVENTING THE HUMAN COMPO\-\expndtw-6 NENT OF THE SYSTEM FROM IRRATIONAL ACTIONS. \expndtw-1 A series of clicks and blinks, then: IN LIEU OF SPECIFIC \expndtw-6 COURSE INSTRUCTIONS, A RANDOM EVASION PAT\-\expndtw-4 TERN WILL BE RUN.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri5\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Despite his fiercest efforts, Holman felt himself dropping into deep sleep. Slowly, slowly, everything faded, and dark\-ness engulfed him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li557\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs19 Run to the stars: O stars, won't you hide me?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li552\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs19 The Lord said: O sinner-man, the stars'll be a-falling\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\fs19 All on that day.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri5\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Holman slept as the ship raced at near-lightspeed in an \expndtw-1 erratic, meaningless course, looping across galaxies, darting \expndtw-3 through eons of time. When the computer's probings of Hoi-\expndtw0 man's subconscious mind told it that everything was safe, it \expndtw1 instructed the cryogenics system to reawaken the man.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He blinked, then slowly sat up.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 SUBCONSCIOUS INDICATIONS SHOW THAT THE \expndtw-6 WAVE OF IRRATIONALITY HAS PASSED.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Holman said nothing.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 YOU WERE SUFFERING FROM AN EMOTIONAL \expndtw-8 SHOCK.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "And now it's an emotional pain... a permanent, fixed, im\-\expndtw0 mutable disease that will kill me, sooner or later. But don't \expndtw-2 worry, I won't kill myself. I'm over that. And I won't do any\-\expndtw-1 thing to damage you, either."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 COURSE INSTRUCTIONS?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He shrugged. "Let's see what the world looks like out \expndtw-4 there." Holman focused the outside viewscreens. "Things look \expndtw-3 different," he said, puzzled. "The sky isn't black anymore; it's \expndtw1 sort of grayish-like the first touch of dawn..."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 COURSE INSTRUCTIONS?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 He took a deep breath. "Let's try to find some planet where\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2405\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 the people are too young to have heard of mankind, and too innocent to worry about death."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li58\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 A PRIMITIVE CIVILIZATION. THE SCANNERS CAN \expndtw-2 ONLY DETECT SUCH SOCIETIES AT EXTREMELY \expndtw-6 CLOSE RANGE.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Okay. We've got nothing but time."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li53\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The ship doubled back to the nearest galaxy and began a \expndtw3 searching pattern. Holman stared at the sky, fascinated. \expndtw0 Something strange was happening.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The viewscreens showed him the outside world, and au\-\expndtw1 tomatically corrected the wavelength shifts caused by the ship's immense velocity. It was as though Holman were \expndtw-2 watching a speeded-up tape of cosmological evolution. Gal\-\expndtw0 axies seemed to be edging into his field of view, mammoth \expndtw-1 islands of stars, sometimes coming close enough to collide. He watched the nebulous arms of a giant spiral slice silently \expndtw-3 through the open latticework of a great ovoid galaxy. He saw \expndtw2 two spirals interpenetrate, their loose gas heating to an in\-\expndtw1 tense blue that finally disappeared into ultraviolet. And all \expndtw3 the while, the once-black sky was getting brighter and \expndtw1 brighter.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Found anything yet?" he absently asked the computer, \expndtw2 still staring at the outside view.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\i You will find no one.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li29\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx1843\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Holman's whole body went rigid. No mistaking it: the\line\expndtw-3 Others.\expndtw0\tab\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\i No race, anywhere, will shelter you.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\i We will see to that.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li10\ri730\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\i You are alone, and you will be alone until death \expndtw2 you to join your fellow men.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Their voices inside his head rang with cold fury. An im\-\expndtw0 placable hatred, cosmic and eternal.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "But why me? I'm only one man. What harm can I do \expndtw-9 now?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\i You are a human.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\i You are accursed. A race of murderers.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\i Your punishment is extinction.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "But I'm not an Immortal, I never even saw an Immortal. I didn't know about the Flower People, I just took orders."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\i Total extinction.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li226\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5\i For all of mankind.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6\i All.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Judge and jury, all at once. And executioners too. All \expndtw2 right.. .try and get me! If you're so powerful, and it means\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2405\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 so much to you that you have to wipe out the last single man \expndtw0 in the universe-come and get me! Just \i try."\cf0\lang2057\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i\fs21 You have no right to resist.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\i\fs21 Your race is evil. All must pay with death.\cf0\lang2057\i0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\i\fs21 You cannot escape us.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri5\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I don't care what we've done. Understand? I don't care! Wrong, right, it doesn't matter. I didn't do anything. I won't \expndtw-1 accept your verdict for something I didn't do."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i\fs21 It makes no difference.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i\fs21 You can flee to the ends of the universe to no avail.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i\fs21 You have forced us to leave our time-continuum. We can \expndtw-4 never return to our homeworlds again. We have nothing to do but pursue you. Sooner or later your machinery will fail. You cannot flee us forever.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Their thoughts broke off. But Holman could stilHeel them, \expndtw-1 still sense them following.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Can't flee forever," Holman repeated to himself. "Well, I can damn well try."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri24\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He looked at the outside viewscreens again, and suddenly \expndtw-1 the word \i forever \i0 took on \i its \i0 real meaning.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The galaxies were clustering in now, falling in together \expndtw0 as though sliding down some titanic, invisible slope. The \expndtw-1 universe had stopped expanding eons ago, Holman now re\-\expndtw-2 alized. Now it was contracting, pulling together again. It was \expndtw-1 all ending!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He laughed. Coming to an end. Mankind and the Others, \expndtw-1 together, coming to the ultimate and complete end of every\-\expndtw0 thing.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "How much longer?" he asked the computer. "How long \expndtw-4 do we have?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The computer's lights flashed once, twice, then went dark. \expndtw-2 The viewscreen was dead.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Holman stared at the machine. He looked around the com\-\expndtw0 partment. One by one the outside viewscreens were flicker\-ing, becoming static-streaked, weak, and then winking off.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "They're taking over the ship!"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri38\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 With every ounce of willpower in him, Holman concen\-\expndtw-2 trated on the generators and engines. That was the important \expndtw0 part, the crucial system that spelled the difference between \expndtw-1 victory and defeat. The ship had to keep moving!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He looked at the instrument panels, but their soft lumi\-\expndtw-2 nosity faded away into darkness. And now it was becoming \expndtw7 difficult to breathe. And the heating units seemed to be\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2395\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 stopped. Holman could feel his life-warmth ebbing away \expndtw2 through the inert metal hull of the dying ship.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 But the engines were still throbbing. The ship was still \expndtw0 streaking across space and time, heading towards a rendez\-\expndtw1 vous with the infinite.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i\fs21 Surrender.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li29\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\i\fs21 In a few moments you will be dead. Give up this mad fight \expndtw-2 and die peacefully,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The ship shuddered violently. What were they doing to it \expndtw-11 now?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\i\fs21 Surrender!\cf0\lang2057\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri14\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Go to hell," Holman snapped. "While there's breath in \expndtw0 me, I'll spend it fighting you."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\i\fs21 You cannot escape.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\tx3970\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 But now Holman could feel warmth seeping\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2 into the ship.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 He could sense the painful glare outside as billions of galaxies \expndtw1 all rushed together down to a single cataclysmic point in \expndtw-3 spacetime.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li10\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "It's almost over!" he shouted. "Almost finished. And \expndtw-1 you've lost! Mankind is still alive, despite everything you've \expndtw0 thrown at him. AH of mankind-the good and the bad, the \expndtw3 murderers and the music, wars and cities and everything \expndtw0 we've ever done, the.whole race from the beginning of time \expndtw-3 to the end-all locked up here in my skull. And I'm stil! here. \expndtw0 Do you hear me? I'm still here!" The Others were silent,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Holman could feel a majestic rumble outside the ship, like \expndtw4 distant thunder,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "The end of the world. The end of everything and every\-\expndtw-1 body. We finish in a tie. Mankind has made it right down to \expndtw2 the final second. And if there's another universe after this \expndtw-4 one, maybe there'll be a place in it for us all over again. How's \expndtw1 that for laughs?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li235\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The world ended.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Not with a whimper, bat a roar of triumph.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\cf1\lang1033\fs77 2\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sb403\cf1\lang1033\b\fs33 SUN DESTROYED\cf0\lang2057\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li14\ri10\sb336\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 What if the Universe continues on its peaceful way, but it is our Sun that is somehow destroyed? That would be a "Ca\-tastrophe of the Second Class."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 In the prescientific age, it was felt that the Sun was not \expndtw-2 reliable. In the Norse myths, the Sun and Moon were forever \expndtw-1 pursued by wolves who might swallow them at any time. In \expndtw0 the Greek myths, an unskilled hand at the \i reins \i0 of the solar \expndtw1 chariot sent the Sun careening toward the Earth and nearly \expndtw-2 destroyed it. Science knows better. The Sun is stable-but is \expndtw-1 it? Do we know enough? Can it destroy us willfully, unpre-dictably ("Judgement Day" by Lloyd Biggie, Jr.)?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Well, perhaps not willfully, unpredictably-but inevita\-\expndtw-2 bly. The Sun cannot last forever. In the 1840s, Hermann von \expndtw-3 Helmholtz worked out the law of conservation of energy, and \expndtw2 that in itself, told us the Sun had a finite life and must die \expndtw-3 ("The Custodian" by William Tenn)-but not for billions of \expndtw-2 years, we believe.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The manner of that death has changed since Helmholtz's \expndtw1 day. For nearly a century, it was taken for granted that the Sun was, one way or anqther, a huge bonfire that would \expndtw-1 flicker, die down and cool. It would take longer for the Sun \expndtw-2 to do so than an ordinary bonfire but it was just as inevitable \expndtw-1 ("Phoenix" by Clark Ashton Smith).\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 By the 1930s, however Hans A. Bethe and Carl von \expndtw1 Weizsacker had worked out the details of the nuclear fires \expndtw0 of the Sun and it began to seem that our luminary would go \expndtw-1 out in a deadly blaze rather than a pitiful flicker ("Run from \expndtw1 the Fire" by Harry Harrison).\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li1550\ri1522\sl-475\slmult0\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\b\fs27 Judgement Day \expndtw-1\b0 LLOYD BIGGLE, JR.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\sb422\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Lem Dyer was used to being talked about. For years people \expndtw2 had thought him a bit touched in the head, or a harmless \expndtw-1 dreamer, or maybe some kind of soothsayer, and in Glenn \expndtw-3 Center when folks thought something they said it. Lem never \expndtw-4 minded.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 They were saying other things about Mm that evening, \expndtw-5 foul, vicious things. Lem heard some of them, spewed up from \expndtw-2 the crowd that gathered below his cell window. He tilted the \expndtw1 battered old chair baek against the cement-block wall and \expndtw-1 sat there in the dark, puffing slowly on his corncob pipe and \expndtw1 only half listening to the arguments, and the coarse shouts, \expndtw0 and the jeers. "Shucks," he told himself, "They don't mean \expndtw1 nothin' by it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 And after a while he heard the sheriff's booming voice \expndtw-3 talking to the crowd, telling the men to go home, telling them \expndtw1 they had -nothing to worry about, and they might as well \expndtw-2 leave Lem Dyer alone with his conscience.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "He'll hang at sunrise, just as sure as there'll be a sunrise," Sheriff Harbson said. "Now go on home and get to bed. You don't want to oversleep, do you?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 There was more talk, and then the men drifted away, and \expndtw-2 things got quiet, The sheriff came back in the jail and barred \expndtw1 the front door, and Lem heard him talking to the deputies, \expndtw2 allowing that Lem Dyer might or might not be the things \expndtw0 people said he was, but he sure was an odd one.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Going to hang in the morning," the sheriff said, "and he's \expndtw2 sitting back there in his cell smoking his pipe just like he \expndtw-2 always used to do out in his shack, of an evening. To look at \expndtw-3 him you'd think nothing had happened-or was going to hap\-\expndtw-21 pen."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2160\li2395\ri38\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Lem chuckled softly to himself. The sheriff was a good \cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 man. He'd gone out of his way to make Lem comfortable and \expndtw-4 bring him little things like tobacco and even a drink of whisky \expndtw-1 now and then. And when Lem had thanked him, he'd said, \expndtw0 "Hell, I've got to hang you. Isn't that punishment enough?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Lem puffed contentedly on his pipe and decided he should \expndtw0 do something for the sheriff. But later on, after all this was \expndtw-2 over with.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He'd wanted to tell the sheriff that there wouldn't be \i any \expndtw2\i0 hanging, and he was wasting a lot of money building that \expndtw-1 scaffold and getting everything ready. But he couldn't with\-\expndtw-3 out telling him about the pictures, and the looking and choos\-\expndtw1 ing, and he'd never told anyone about that. And perhaps it \expndtw-2 was just as well that he hadn't told him, because the scaffold \expndtw1 was in the pictures.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 He'd looked at so many pictures it'd given him a headache, \expndtw-2 and the scaffold was in all of them, and the people crowding around it, and Lem Dyer dangling by his neck. And then the \expndtw-4 deputy running out of the jail and shouting, stop, the governor \expndtw1 just telephoned, Lem Dyer is granted a reprieve, and the people laughing at Lem hanging there and shouting back, \expndtw5 cut him down and reprieve him. \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li5\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 It was nice of the governor, Lem thought, to take such an \expndtw0 interest in him, and he'd gone on looking at pictures, trying \expndtw-4 to find one where the governor telephoned in time. There was \expndtw0 one where Sheriff Harbson got sick just as he was leading \expndtw-5 Lem up to the scaffold, and he lay there on the ground looking \expndtw2 terrible, and Lem didn't like that even if it did hold things \expndtw1 up until the governor telephoned. And there was a picture \expndtw0 where the Glenn Hotel caught on fire, but some people got \expndtw1 hurt, and Lem didn't want that. He'd gone on looking, and \expndtw0 finally he found a picture where the rope broke, or came \expndtw3 untied, and he fell right through the trap to the ground. It \expndtw2 took some time to get things ready again, and the deputy \expndtw-1 came out shouting stop before they got Lem back up on the \expndtw-2 scaffold. Then the sheriff led Lem back toward the jail, with \expndtw-3 all the people following along behind. Lem liked that picture, \expndtw0 and it was the one he chose.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He knew it wouldn't get him out of jail, and he'd have to look at pictures again. But he wasn't in any hurry. Looking at pictures made him terribly tired, now that he was getting old. He didn't like to do it unless he had to.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 That was why he'd gotten into trouble. If he'd looked at \expndtw1 pictures he wouldn't have jumped into the river to pull out \expndtw4 the little Olmstead girl, and he wouldn't have carried her\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2400\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 over to Doc Beasley's house, thinking the doctor might be \expndtw1 able to help her, Or he would have made it come out some \expndtw0 other way. But he hadn't looked at pictures, and people had started talking about haw maybe it was Lem who killed the \expndtw3 little girl, and finally they'd taken him to court and had a \expndtw4 trial.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li34\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Even then Lem hadn't looked at pictures. He hadn't done \expndtw1 anything wrong, and he thought he didn't have anything to \expndtw2 worry about. But the jury said he was guilty, and Judge \expndtw1 Wilson said he waa to hang by his neck until he was dead, \expndtw0 and Ted Emmons, who'd grown up to be a lawyer and was \expndtw-2 looking after things for Lem,.stopped smiling when he came \expndtw-1 to see him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 So Lem had looked at pictures again, and now he'd made \expndtw0 his choice and everything would be all right.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He got up and fumbled in the dark for his can of tobacco. \expndtw1 Suddenly the lights came on in the corridor, and footsteps \expndtw-1 shuffled in his direction.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Visitors, Lem," the sheriff called. He stepped into sight, keys jangling, and unlocked the cell door.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 Reverend Meyers, of the Glenn Center First Baptist \expndtw-5 Church, sounded a deep-toned, "Good evening, Lem," gripped \expndtw-1 his hand, and then backed off into a corner and fussed with \expndtw2 his hat. District Attorney Whaley nodded jerkily and tried \expndtw-2 to grin. He was middle-aged and getting a little fat and bald, \expndtw2 but Lem remembered him as a tough kid stoning rats over \expndtw-2 at the town dump. Lem thought maybe he was feelmg a little \expndtw-1 proud of the way he talked the jury into finding Lem guilty, \expndtw1 but then-that was his job, and the people had elected him \expndtw-2 to do it.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Mr. Whaley's grin slipped away, leaving him tight-lipped. \expndtw-1 He cleared his throat noisily and said, "Well, Lem, being as \expndtw1 it's the last night, we were-that is, I was-wondering if \expndtw-1 maybe you had something to get off your chest."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 Lem sat down again and tilted back in his chair. He lit \expndtw2 his pipe and puffed for a moment before he said slowly, \expndtw-4 "Why-no. I don't reckon I've got anything on my chest that's \expndtw-1 botherin' me enough to need getting off, I never went much to church except on Christmas Eve, and that because I liked \expndtw-3 to watch the kids more than for the religion. The Revern here \expndtw-2 would say I wasn't a religious \i man, \i0 but I don't think he'd call me bad. I reckon maybe I've shot sne or two deer and caught a few fish out of season, because I needed the meat, and I've \expndtw0 bet some on the races at the county fair, but a lot of men do\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2400\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 that. I don't think I ever broke any other laws, and I never \expndtw4 hurt nobody, and I think maybe I did help a lot of people,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "I don't think anyone would call you a bad man, Lena," \expndtw2 Whaley said. "But even good men make mistakes, and we'd \expndtw4 all feel better, and so would you, if you told us about it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "I told you all I know, Mr. Whaley," Lem said. "I saw the \expndtw2 little girl floatin' in the river, and I thought she was drownin'. \expndtw1 I didn't know somebody'd choked her. I jumped in and pulled \expndtw4 her out, and I remembered that sometimes drowned people \expndtw5 could be brought to life but I didn't know how, so I ran to Doc Beasley's with her. I can't tell more than that."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Whaley stopped his pacing to fumble for a cigarette. The \expndtw4 sheriff gave him one of his and held a match for him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 "It doesn't worry you, Lem?" Whaley asked. "You're going \expndtw4 to hang in the morning. You wouldn't want to die with that \expndtw0 on your conscience, would you?"\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "It don't worry me none," Lem said. "They don't hang \expndtw3 innocent men, do they?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3 "Why, no-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Then I got nothin' to worry about. I won't hang." He \expndtw3 nodded his gray head and smiled peacefully.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 Whaley stared at him for a moment. Then he turned \expndtw3 abruptly and said over his shoulder, "Good luck, Lem,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Why, thank you, Mr. Whaley."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 The sheriff followed Whaley out and locked the cell door. \expndtw4 "Just holler when you're ready, Reverend," he said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 As their footsteps faded away down the corridor, a wistful \expndtw2 grin touched Reverend Meyers's gaunt face. He lowered his \expndtw0 long form awkwardly onto Lem's cot. "They're worried some, \expndtw4 Lem," he said. "They'd feel a lot better if you up and told \expndtw6 them you did it. They're'beginning to think maybe they're \expndtw4 hanging an innocent man tomorrow."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "I can't tell them I did it if I didn't, Revern."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Of course not, Lem. I know you didn't do it. So do quite \expndtw0 a few other people. We've been working on it, Lem-working \expndtw4 hard. Ted Emmons, and I, and some others. We didn't want to say anything to you because that might have made you \expndtw1 start hoping, and we really didn't know if we could help you. \expndtw4 We've finally had some luck, and we'think we know who \expndtw2 killed the child. Ted Emmons is trying right now to get hold \expndtw3 of the governor, to get you a reprieve. All we need is a little more time."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Lem nodded. That explained the telephone call from the \expndtw4 governor that would have come too late if he hadn't looked\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2400\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 at the pictures and made a choice. But now everything would \expndtw0 be all right. He'd get the reprieve, and then they would find \expndtw15 the real murderer let Lem out of jail, he wouldn't \expndtw2 have to look at pictures again. He felt happy about that, \expndtw0 because looking at pictures tired him so.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Ted was having some trouble getting through to the gov\-\expndtw3 ernor," the Reverend said, "but he'll keep trying all night, \expndtw-1 if he has to. Just put your trust in God, Lem, and everything \expndtw1 will be all right."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I haven't been worryin', Revern."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "Keep faith with God, Lem. Do you mind if I pray for you?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You go right ahead, Revern."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Reverend Meyers bowed his head and spoke softly. Lem didn't listen, but he watched him uneasily. He hadn't put any \expndtw0 faith at all in God. He'd put all his faith in his pictures, and the looking and choosing, and it disturbed him to think that \expndtw1 maybe God was showing him the pictures and letting him \expndtw-2 look and choose. He'd never thought of that before. The pic\-\expndtw0 tures were just something he'd always had, like ears to hear \expndtw-2 with, and a mouth to eat with, and eyes, and hands, and legs. \expndtw0 But then-God gave out those things, too, or so he'd heard \expndtw-1 Reverend Meyers say, so maybe God was showing him the \expndtw0 pictures.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li24\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The Reverend Meyers intoned a soft, "Amen," and Lem \expndtw0 said, "I'll have to do some thinkin', Revern,"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "How's that, Lem?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "What you said-faith in God, and that. I'll have to do \expndtw0 some thinkin'."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "I wish you woukL And Lem-it might be that Ted won't \expndtw3 reach the governor, or that the governor won't grant the \expndtw1 reprieve. If feat should happen, remember that the sheriff, and the district attorney, and the jury, have only done their duty as they saw it. Have charity in your heart for all men, Lem. Think of the Lord Jesus on the cross saying, 'Father, \expndtw0 forgive them, for they know not what they do.'"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Sure, Revern. I'll remember."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li14\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "I'll be with you in the morning, Lem. And the sheriff will \expndtw0 let you know right away if there's any good news."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li5\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The sheriff came for Reverend Meyers, and a moment later \expndtw-1 the lights were turned out. Lem sat in the darkness, smoking \expndtw1 his pipe and thinking.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He couldn't remember when he'd first started seeing pic\-\expndtw-3 tures and making choices. He'd never done it very often, even \expndtw-4 when he was young, because it left him dizzy and kind of sick\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2395\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 to his stomach, and sometimes he felt so weak afterward that \expndtw0 it scared him. But whenever he wanted something real bad he would sit down somewhere and close his eyes and think \expndtw-2 about what it was he wanted. The pictures would come, one \expndtw0 after the other. It was like slowly flipping through a deck of \expndtw-2 cards and taking time to look carefully at each one. When he \expndtw-1 found the picture he wanted he would choose that one, and \expndtw1 that's the way things would happen.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The other kids envied him. They said Lem Dyer was the \expndtw-3 luckiest kid in three counties. He was always getting chances to run errands and do little things for people to earn spending \expndtw0 money, but it wasn't luck. It was because of the pictures. If \expndtw-3 he wanted a stick of candy, all he had to do was find a picture \expndtw-1 where some lady was leaving Crib's Store with an armful of groceries and looking for someone to help her. He would \expndtw0 choose that one and run down to Crib's Store, and whoever it was would come out and give him-a penny to carry her groceries. He was always there when Mr. Jones wanted the \expndtw-1 sidewalk swept in front of his barber shop, or when Banker \expndtw0 Goldman wanted something run over to the post office in a hurry and everyone in the bank was busy. He didn't realize \expndtw2 yet that it was his choosing that made people want things \expndtw-8 done.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi115\li14\ri34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 - He couldn't understand why the other kids didn't look at \expndtw-2 pictures when they wanted things. He was maybe nine or ten \expndtw0 when he and some of his friends were stretched out on the river bank talking, and Stubby Smith went on and on about \expndtw-3 how much he wanted a bicycle. Lem said, "If you really want \expndtw-1 one, why don't you get it?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri48\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The kids hooted at him and asked him why \i he \i0 didn't get \expndtw1 one. Lem had never thought about getting something big, \expndtw-3 like a bicycle. He closed his eyes and looked at pictures until \expndtw-5 he found one where little Lydia Morrow toddled into the street \expndtw1 in front of a runaway team, and Lem jumped after her and \expndtw-1 pulled her back, and Mr. Morrow took Lem right into his \expndtw0 hardware store and gave him the bicycle he had in the win\-\expndtw-12 dow.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri53\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Lem chose that one. He ran up town and got to Morrow's \expndtw1 Hardware Store just as Lydia started into the street, and he was back at the river an hour later with his new bicycle.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri58\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 For a long time Lem thought the pictures he saw were just \expndtw0 pictures of things that were going to happen. He'd been al\-\expndtw5 most grown up before he understood that his choosing a\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2395\sl-202\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 thing made it happen. Before a horse race at the county fair, \expndtw1 he could see pictures of every horse in the race winning. If \expndtw-4 he made a choice, so he could bet on a horse, that horse would \expndtw3 always win. He learned in a hurry that it wasn't smart to \expndtw1 win all the time, and usually he would bet without even \expndtw-1 looking at pictures, but he always won enough money at the \expndtw3 fair to last him through the winter.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li14\ri29\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Lem was twelve when his father fell off the barn, and he \expndtw-1 had to leave school and work the farm. He was only twenty \expndtw1 when his mother died, and he rented out the farm and built himself a shack back in the woods, near the river, and that \expndtw-2 was his home. He loved to hunt and fish, and he loved being outdoors. As he got older a lot of people said it was a shame, \expndtw2 a healthy man like him not working, and getting married, \expndtw1 and raising a family. But he liked living alone, and he had \expndtw2 all the company he ever wanted because all the kids liked \expndtw0 to play down by the river, winter and summer. It never cost \expndtw1 him much to live, and if he needed anything he could look at pictures and get what he wanted. If he felt like working for a week or two, he could look at pictures and then walk \expndtw0 in to town and find a job waiting for him.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri48\sb5\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He'd had a happy life. He could choose a nice day, if he \expndtw4 wanted to go fishing, or snow, if he wanted to do track\-\expndtw1 ing, or rain, if the farmers were having trouble about their \expndtw-1 crops. When hunting season opened, Lem Dyer always got \expndtw0 the first and biggest buck. He never went fishing without coming back with a nice string, And if a man needed help, chances were that Lem could help him.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri53\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He'd never told anyone about the pictures, and it bothered \expndtw0 him, now that he was sixty-one, to think that maybe it was \expndtw-4 God who was showing them to him. He wondered if God had \expndtw1 wanted him to do something important with them-some\-\expndtw-3 thing big, like stopping wars, or getting the right man elected \expndtw-4 president, or catching criminals. He knew he could have done \expndtw0 all those things, if he'd thought of them. There wasn't any\-\expndtw-4 thing he couldn't do just by seeing it in a picture and choosing it.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri58\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 But he never read the papers, and he'd never thought \expndtw-1 much about the world outside Glenn Center. He was almost \expndtw1 too old to start, but he'd think some more about it, after he \expndtw0 got out of jail. Maybe he should do something about those \expndtw-1 Russians so many people were worried about.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2386\sl-206\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li48\ri86\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The clock on the Methodist Church was striking two when \expndtw-1 Lem finally went to bed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The sheriff brought him his breakfast at four o'clock, a big \sub\i t \expndtw-2\nosupersub\i0 plate of ham and eggs, and toast, and lots of steaming coffee, \expndtw0 Lem could already hear the men arriving out behind the jail, \expndtw-2 where the scaffold was.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri91\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Reverend Meyers came in before Lem finished eating, and \expndtw-2 his thin face was pale and grim. "Ted is still trying," he said,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li29\ri91\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Lem nodded. He wanted to tell the Reverend that every\-thing would be all right, so he wouldn't worry, but if he did \expndtw1 that he might have to tell him about the pictures. The Rev\-\expndtw-2 erend was a good man, and Lem was sure he could trust him \expndtw0 if he trusted anybody.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri96\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He was still thinking about it when he finished his break\-\expndtw0 fast. He got down on his knees to pray when the Reverend \expndtw1 asked him to, and then the sheriff came in and there wasn't \expndtw-1 time. The sheriff and two deputies took Lem out to the scaf\-fold, with the Reverend following along behind them.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri96\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Lem hadn't known that he had so many friends. The crowd \expndtw-2 filled the whole field and overflowed out into First Avenue. \expndtw1 There weren't any women and children, of course, but it looked like every man from miles around had turned out. \expndtw2 Lem thought it was nice of them to get up so early in the \expndtw-1 morning just for him. They waited quietly, not talking much and looking the other way when Lem looked down at them.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The Reverend was talking with the sheriff at the edge of \expndtw2 the scaffold, talking fast, and with his hands gesturing ur\-gently. The sheriff kept shrugging and turning his hands \expndtw0 palms up and glancing at his watch. A deputy moved Lem over the trap and put the rope around his neck, Lem looked \expndtw1 up and smiled a little when he saw it was an old rope.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri115\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The sheriff's hands were trembling when he stepped for\-ward. He patted Lem on the back, and the Reverend said a little prayer and whispered, "God bless you, Lem," and out \expndtw-1 in the crowd Lem saw District Attorney Whaley turn slowly \expndtw2 and stand with his eyes on the steeple of the Methodist \expndtw1 Church. Then there was nothing under Lem's feet, and he was falling.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri125\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The savage jerk blurred his\i  \i0 eyes with pain, but he kept \expndtw2 falling until he sank to his knees on the ground under the \expndtw-4 scaffold. The air rocked with noise as everyone started talking \expndtw-1 and shouting. Sheriff Harbson came down and helped Lem \expndtw1 out and stood there white-faced, staring, not able to talk.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2390\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Get a new rope!" someone shouted, and the crowd began to chant, "New rope! New rope!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri24\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "You can't hang a man twice in one day," the Reverend \expndtw1 was shouting, and the sheriff found his voice and shouted \expndtw-3 back, "He has to hang by his neck until dead. That's the law."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Then everyone turned toward the jail, where a deputy was \expndtw0 screaming and trying to fight his way through the crowd.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li14\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The sheriff, and the deputies, and Reverend Meyers took \expndtw-3 Lem and started back to the jail with him. It took a long time, \expndtw-2 because none of the crowd seemed in any hurry to get out of \expndtw-1 their way. Lem had supposed that the men would be glad to \expndtw4 hear about the governor's reprieve, but they weren't. The \expndtw5 noise got louder and louder, and they were shouting \expndtw-1 things like he'd heard in his cell the night before. Lem's \expndtw-2 pained him, and his ankle hurt from the fall, and he was glad \expndtw0 it was over with.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 They'd rounded the corner of the jail and started for the \expndtw-2 entrance, on Main Street, when the roaring fury of the crowd \expndtw1 caught up with them and overwhelmed them. The sheriff \expndtw-1 went down trying to draw his revolver and was trampled. A \expndtw-2 deputy rushed into the jail and barred the door, and he could be seen through the window excitedly bending over the tele\-phone. The crowd boosted a man up the side of the building \expndtw1 to jerk the wires loose. Stones shattered the window and rained into the jail.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri34\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Lem was dragged back toward the scaffold, and when a \expndtw2 deputy ducked behind it and fired into the air, the crowd \expndtw0 turned the other way and dragged him toward Main Street,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Get a rope!" someone shouted.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Anyone got a horse? They used to use horses!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri43\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Don't need no horse. We can use Jake Arnson's truck, \expndtw2 Jake, back your truck under that elm tree!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Jake Arnson ran down the street to his truck. The motor \expndtw2 coughed and sputtered and finally caught with a roar, and \expndtw0 the truck lurched backward. Jake parked under the elm, cut \expndtw1 the motor, and jumped out. A rope snaked up over a tree \expndtw-5 limb. Lem had been too stunned and horrified to feel the kicks \expndtw-1 and blows that rained upon him. They hoisted him onto the \expndtw1 truck, and he stood there, hands and feet bound, trembling \expndtw-1 with frustration, while the rope was knotted about his neck.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri53\sb10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He told himself he should have waited to see all of the picture. He should have looked at more pictures. But how \expndtw-1 could he have known that these men he knew so well would\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2395\sl-202\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\ri24\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 use him like this? Now he'd have to look at pictures again. \expndtw3 He closed his eyes and forced himself to concentrate.,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li34\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 The pictures flashed in front of him, one after the other, \expndtw3 and in each of them the truck rocked forward and left Lem Dyer dangling by his neck.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Jake was back in his truck, trying to start the motor. The \expndtw5 starter whined fretfully. Someone yelled, "Need a push, Jake?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Lem kept watching the pictures, but finally he knew, with \expndtw4 a sickening certainty, that pictures couldn't help him. In all \expndtw5 of them the truck moved forward and left him hanging. It \expndtw3 had never happened that way before-pictures without any \expndtw-3 choices.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 He shook the perspiration from his eyes and looked about \expndtw4 him. The sheriff lay on the sidewalk in front of the jail in a \expndtw1 pool of blood. Reverend Meyers lay nearby, his arms moving \expndtw4 feebly, one leg bent at a strange angle. Men were hurling stones at the scaffold, where the deputy had taken refuge.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri24\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Sadly he looked down at the hate-twisted faces of men he'd \expndtw2 thought were his friends. He remembered what the Reverend \expndtw7 had told him. Jesus had seen hate like that when they'd \expndtw2 nailed him to the cross, and he'd said, "Father, forgive them, \expndtw4 for they know not what they do." Lem said the words to \expndtw1 himself, softly. Maybe his old life wasn't worth much to any\-\expndtw4 one but himself, but it was sad.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri29\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The starter whined again, and someone called, "Speech! \expndtw4 Can the murderer talk? Let's have a confession!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri43\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 A hundred coarse echoes sounded. "Confession! Confes\-\expndtw-3 sion!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Lem threw his cracked voice out over the mob. "You're \expndtw3 evil men-evil! Get down on your knees and pray that God won't punish you!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 They flung back at him wave after stinging wave of hoots \expndtw4 of laughter. "You dirty murderer! God won't punish \i us!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri34\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 The Reverend had slumped forward to lie motionless. Doc \expndtw3 Beasley had finally managed to push through the crowd and \expndtw1 was kneeling beside the sheriff. The faces below Lem blurred \expndtw5 and twisted and mortal anger overwhelmed him. "If God \expndtw3 won't punish you," he screamed, "I will!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri43\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 He closed his eyes and willed the pictures into being. Larger than life, they were, but they moved so slowly, and \expndtw5 he had so little time.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li226\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\i A tornado, dragging its swirling funnel along Main Street,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2395\sl-202\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li62\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i\fs21 relentlessly flattening buildings, crushing their occupants, \expndtw-1 toppling the Methodist Church steeple onto the jail.,,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Not enough!" Lem gasped.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi221\li58\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\i\fs21 A prairie fire, tossed high on gale winds, roaring hungrily \expndtw-1 down on Glenn Center, driving the populace before it...\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\tx4771\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "Not enough?"\expndtw0\tab\sub\i f\cf0\lang2057\nosupersub\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li48\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\i\fs21 Fleets of enemy planes darkening the sky, pouring searing \expndtw-5 death onto even such an insignificant dot on the map as Glenn \expndtw3 Center...\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Not enough!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\i\fs21 The summer sun, high and bright at noonday, suddenly \expndtw-3 bulging crazily, tearing the sky asunder, drenching the coun\-\expndtw-1 tryside in blinding incandescence, charring human vermin, \expndtw-5 steaming away the rivers, crumbling concrete, boiling the very \expndtw3 dust underfoot...\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Lem 'chose that one, just as Jake Arnson got his motor started.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li1276\ri1646\sb1128\sl-475\slmult0\qc\tx3828\cf1\lang1033\expndtw14\fs27 The Custodian \expndtw-26 WILLIAM   TENN\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\ri24\sb418\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 May 9, 2190-Well, I did it! It was close, but fortunately I \expndtw0 have a very suspicious nature. My triumph, my fulfillment \expndtw3 was almost stolen from me, but I was too clever for them. As \expndtw2 a result, I am happy to note in this, my will and testament, \expndtw-1 I now begin my last year of life.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri38\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 No, let me be accurate. This last year of life, the year that \expndtw0 I will spend in an open tomb, really began at noon today. \expndtw-3 Then, in the second sub-basement of the Museum of Modern \expndtw0 Astronautics, I charged a dial for the third successive time \expndtw-1 and got a completely negative response.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri53\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 That meant that I, Piyatil, was the only human being alive \expndtw2 on Earth. What a straggle I have had to achieve that dis\-\expndtw-1 tinction!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2160\li2405\ri43\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Well, it's all over now, I'm fairly certain. Just to be on the \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Safe side, I'll come down and check the anthropometer every \expndtw-2 day or so for the next week, but I don't think there's a chance \expndtw0 in the universe that I'll get a positive reading. I've had my last, absolutely my final and ultimate battle with the forces \expndtw-2 of righteousness-and I've won. Left in secure, undisputed \expndtw-4 possession of my coffin, there's nothing for me to do now but \expndtw-5 enjoy myself.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 And that shouldn't be too hard. After all, I've been plan\-\expndtw0 ning the pleasures for years!\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri24\sb187\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Still, as I tugged off my suit of berrillit blue and climbed \expndtw1 upstairs into the .sunlight, I couldn't help thinking of the others. Gruzeman, Prej'aut, and possibly even Mo-Diki. \expndtw-4 They'd have been here with me now if only they'd had a shade \expndtw-1 less academic fervor, a touch more of intelligent realism.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi269\li5\ri38\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Too bad in a way. And yet it makes my vigil more solemn, \expndtw-2 more glorious. As I sat down on the marble bench between Rozinski's heroic statues of the Spaceman and Spacewoman, I shrugged and dismissed the memories of Gruzeman, Pre-\expndtw-1 jaut, and Mo-Diki.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 They had failed. I hadn't.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li10\ri43\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 I leaned back, relaxing for the first time in more than a \expndtw-3 month. My eyes swept over the immense bronze figures tow\-ering above me, two pieces of sculpture yearning agonizingly \expndtw0 for the stars, and I burst into a chuckle. The absolute incon\-\expndtw-2 gruity of my hiding place hit me for the first time-imagine, the Museum of Modern Astronautics! Multiplied by the in\-\expndtw-1 credible nervous tension, the knuckle-biting fear of the past \expndtw-3 five days, the chuckle bounced up and down in my throat and \expndtw-1 became a giggle, then a splutter, and finally a reverberating, \expndtw1 chest-heaving laugh that I couldn't stop. It brought all the \expndtw0 deer out of the museum park te stand in front of the marble \expndtw1 bench where Fiyatil, the last man on Earth, choked and \expndtw-3 coughed and wheezed and cackled at his senile accomplish\-\expndtw-2 ment.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 I don't know how long the fit might have held me, but a \expndtw-2 cloud, merely in the course of its regular duties as a summer \expndtw4 cloud, happened to slide in front of the sun. That did it. I \expndtw-4 stopped laughing, as if a connection had been cut, and glanced upward.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri58\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 The cloud went on, and the sunlight poured down as \expndtw1 warmly as ever, but I shivered a bit.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2160\li2395\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Two pregnant young does came a little closer and stood \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 watching as I massaged my neck. Laughter had given it a \expndtw-4 crick,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Well, my dears," I said, tossing them a quotation from \expndtw-3 one of my favorite religions, "it would seem that in the midst \expndtw2 of life we are at last truly in death."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li302\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 They munched at me impassively.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li53\sb202\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 May 11, 2190-I have spent the last two days putting myself and my supplies in order and making plans for the \expndtw1 immediate future. Spending a lifetime in sober preparation \expndtw-3 for the duties of custodianship is one thing. Finding suddenly \expndtw-1 that you have become \i the \i0 custodian, the last of your sect as \expndtw-4 well as your race-and yet, peculiarly, the fulfillment of them \expndtw-1 both-that is quite another thing. \i I \i0 find myself burning with \expndtw2 an insane pride. And a moment later, I turn cold with the \expndtw0 incredible, the majestic responsibility that I face.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\ri19\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Food will be no problem. In the commissary of this one \expndtw0 institution, there are enough packaged meals to keep a man like myself well fed for ten years, let alone twelve months. \expndtw-2 And wherever I go on the planet, from Museum of Buddhist \expndtw-1 Antiquities in Tibet to the Panorama of Political History in \expndtw0 Sevastopol, I will find a similar plenty,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri29\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Of course, packaged meals are packaged meals: somebody \expndtw0 else's idea of what my menu should be. Now that the last \expndtw-3 Affirmer has gone, taking with him his confounded austerity, \expndtw-2 there is no Idnger any need for me to be a hypocrite. I can at \expndtw1 last indulge my taste for luxury and bathe my tongue in \expndtw0 gustatory baubles. Unfortunately I grew to manhood under \expndtw-3 Affirmer domination and the hypocrisies I learned to practice \expndtw1 in sixty cringing years have merged with the essential sub\-\expndtw-1 stance of my character. I doubt, therefore, that I will be pre\-paring any meals of fresh food from the ancient recipes.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tlul\tx4176\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 And then, too, meals of fresh food would involve the death \expndtw-3 of creatures that are currently alive and enjoying themselves. \expndtw0 This seems a bit silly under the circumstances....\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Nor did I need to put any of the automatic laundries into \expndtw-3 operation. Yet I have. Why clean my clothes, I asked myself, \expndtw0 when I can discard a tunic the moment it becomes slightly \expndtw-2 soiled and step into a newly manufactured garment, still stiff \expndtw0 in memory of the machine matrix whence it came?\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Habit told me why I couldn't. Custodian concepts make it \expndtw0 impossible for me to do what an Affirmer in my position \expndtw-1 would find easiest: shrug out of the tunic on a clear patch of \expndtw3 ground and leave it lying behind me like a huge, brightly\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2395\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 colored dropping. On the other hand, much Affirmer teaching \expndtw0 that my conscious mind has been steadfastly rejecting for \expndtw1 decades, I find to my great annoyance, has seeped into the \expndtw-2 unconscious osmotically. The idea of deliberately destroying \expndtw2 anything as functional, if relatively unesthetic, as a dirty \expndtw-4 Tunic, Male, Warm-Season, Affirmer Ship-Classification No. \expndtw-2 2352558.3, appalls me-even against my will.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Over and over again, I tell myself that Affirmer Ship-\expndtw-1 Classification Numbers now mean nothing to me. Less than \expndtw1 nothing. They are as meaningless as cargo symbols on the \expndtw-4 Ark to the stevedores who loaded it, the day after Noah sailed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Yet I step into a one-seater flyball for a relaxing tour of the museum grounds and something in my mind says: \i No. \expndtw-3 58184.72, I \i0 close my teeth upon a forkful of well-seasoned \expndtw0 Luncheon Protein Component and note that I am chewing \expndtw-2 Ship-Classification Numbers \i 15762.94 through 15763.01. I \i0 even remind myself that it is a category to be brought aboard \expndtw0 among the last, and only when the shipboard representative \expndtw-2 of the Ministry of Survival and Preservation has surrendered his command to the shipboard representative of the Ministry of The Journey.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Not a single Affirmer walks the Earth at the moment. \expndtw-1 Together with their confounded multiplicity of government bureaus-including the one in which all people professing \expndtw0 Custodianism had to be registered, the Ministry of Antiq\-\expndtw-1 uities and Useless Relics-they are now scattered among a \expndtw1 hundred or so planetary systems in the galaxy. But all this seems to matter not a bit to my idiotically retentive mind \expndtw-3 which goes on quoting texts memorized decades ago for Sur\-vival Placement Examinations long since superseded and for\-\expndtw1 gotten by those in authority.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri29\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 They are so efficient, the Affirmers, so horribly, success\-\expndtw-4 fully efficient! As a youngster, I confided to my unfortunately \expndtw-2 loquacious comrade, Ru-Sat, that I had begun creative paint\-ing on canvas in my leisure hours. Immediately, my parents, \expndtw0 in collaboration with my recreational adviser, had me vol\-\expndtw-2 unteered into the local Children's \i Extra Work for Extra Sur\-\expndtw-1 vival Group, \i0 where I was assigned to painting numbers and \expndtw-3 symbols on packing eases. "Not pleasure but persistence, per\-\expndtw-1 sistence, persistence will preserve the race of Man," I had to repeat from the Affirmer catechism before I was allowed to \expndtw1 sit down to any meal from that time on.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Later, of course, I was old enough to register as a consci\-\expndtw1 entious Custodian. "Please," my father choked at me when\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2410\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 I told him, "don't come around any more. Don't bother us, I'm \expndtw-2 speaking for the entire family, Fiyatil, including your uncles \expndtw-4 on your mother's side. You've decided to become a dead man: \expndtw1 that's your business now. Just forget you ever had parents \expndtw0 and relatives-and let us forget we had a son."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 This meant I could free myself from Survival chores by \expndtw0 undertaking twice as much work with the microfilm teams that traveled from museum to museum and archaeological \expndtw-1 site to skyscraper city. But still there were the periodic Sur\-\expndtw-2 vival Placement Exams, which everyone agreed didn't apply \expndtw0 to Custodians but insisted we take as a gesture of good will \expndtw-6 to the society which was allowing us to follow our consciences. \expndtw0 Exams which necessitated putting aside a volume entitled \expndtw-6\i Religious Design and Decoration in Temples of the Upper Nile \expndtw-3\i0 for the dreary, dingy, well-thumbed \i Ship-Classification Man\-\expndtw1 ual and Uniform Cargo Stowage Guide. \i0 I had given up the \expndtw-1 hope of being an artist myself, but those ugly little decimals took up time that I wished to spend contemplating the work \expndtw0 of men who had lived in less fanatic and less frenzied cen\-\expndtw1 turies.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi115\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\i\fs21   \i0 They still do! So powerful is habit that, now that I have \expndtw-3 no questions en dehydration to answer ever again, I still find \expndtw1 myself doing the logarithmic work necessary to find out \expndtw0 where a substance is packed once its water is removed. It is \expndtw2 horribly frustrating to be mired after all in an educational \expndtw-1 system from which I turned completely away!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li10\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Of course, the studies I am involved in at the moment \expndtw0 probably don't help very much. Yet it is very important for me to pick up enough information from the elementary ed-\expndtw-2 ueatories in this museum, for example, to insure my not hav\-\expndtw-3 ing to worry about the possibility of a flyball breakdown over \expndtw1 a jungle area. I'm no technician, no trouble-shooter. I have \expndtw0 to learn instead how to choose equipment in good working \expndtw-3 order and how to start operating it without doing any damage \expndtw-2 to delicate components.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 This technological involvement irritates me. Outside, the \expndtw-4 abandoned art of 70,000 years beckons-and here I sit, mem\-\expndtw0 orizing dull facts about the power plants of worker robots, scrutinizing blueprints of the flyballs' antigrav screws, and \expndtw2 acting for all the world like an Affirmer captain trying to \expndtw-4 win a commendation from the Ministry of The Journey before \expndtw-2 he blasts off.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Yet it is precisely this attitude that is responsible for my, being here now, instead of sitting disconsolately aboard the\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2395\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\ri77\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Affirmer scout ship with Mo-Diki, Gruzeman, and Prejaut. \expndtw0 While they exulted in their freedom and charged about the \expndtw-5 planet like creaky old colts, I made for the Museum of Modern \expndtw1 Astronautics and learned how to operate and read an an-\expndtw3 thropometer and how to activate the berrillit blue. I hated \expndtw-1 to waste the time, but I couldn't forget how significant to an \expndtw-2 Affirmer, especially a modern one, is the concept of the sa-\expndtw-4 credness of human life. They had betrayed us once; they were \expndtw-1 bound to come back to make certain that the betrayal left no loose ends in the form of Custodians enjoying fulfillment. I \expndtw-4 was right then, and I know I am right now-but I get so bored \expndtw0 with the merely useful!\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri91\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Speaking of the anthropometer, I had a nasty shock two \expndtw-5 hours ago. The alarm went off-and stopped. I scurried down\-\expndtw4 stairs to it, shaking out the berrillit blue suit as I ran and \expndtw1 hoping desperately that I wouldn't blow myself up in the \expndtw-2 course of using it a second time.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 By the time I got to the machine, it had stopped cater\-\expndtw-1 wauling. I charged the all-directional dial over ten times and \expndtw-3 got no response. Therefore, according to the anthropometer \expndtw0 manual, nothing human was moving about anywhere in the entire solar system. I had keyed the machine to myself elec-\expndtw1 trocephalographically so that I wouldn't set off the alarm. \expndtw-1 Yet the alarm \i had \i0 gone off, indisputably recording the pres\-\expndtw0 ence of humanity other than myself, however temporary its \expndtw-1 existence had been. It was very puzzling.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri53\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 My conclusion is that some atmospheric disturbance or \expndtw-1 faulty connection inside the anthropemeter set the machine \expndtw-3 off. Or possibly, in my great joy over being left behind a few \expndtw-1 days ago, I carelessly damaged the apparatus.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri110\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 I heard the Affirmer scout ship radio the news of the cap\-\expndtw1 ture of my colleagues to a mother vessel waiting beyond Pluto: I \i know I'm \i0 the sole survivor on Earth.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri115\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Besides, if it had been skulking Affirmers who set the \expndtw-2 alarm off, their own anthropometer would have detected me \expndtw-3 at the same time, since I had been walking about unprotected \expndtw-1 by the insulating effect of berrillit blue. The museum would \expndtw0 have been surrounded by flyball crews and I'd have been caught almost immediately.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri120\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 No, I cannot believe I have anything more to fear from Affirmers. They have satisfied themselves with their last-\expndtw-2 moment return of two days ago, I am positive. Their doctrine would forbid any further returns, since they would be risking\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2405\sl-202\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li72\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 their own lives. After all, there are only 363 days left-at \expndtw2 most-before the sun goes nova.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi106\li67\ri19\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2  May 15,2190-I am deeply disturbed, hi fact, I am fright\-\expndtw1 ened. And the worst of it is, I,do not know of what. All I can \expndtw2 do now is wait.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li62\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Yesterday, I left the Museum of Modern Astronautics for \expndtw4 a preliminary tour of the world. I planned to spend two or \expndtw3 three weeks hopping about in my flyball before I made any \expndtw4 decision about where I would stay for the bulk of my year.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li43\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 My first error was the choice of a first destination. Italy. \expndtw2 It is very possible that, if my little problem had not come up, \expndtw1 I would have spent eleven months there before going on with \expndtw5 my preliminary survey. The Mediterranean is a dangerous \expndtw2 and sticky body of water to anyone who has decided that, his \expndtw5 own talents being inadequate or aborted, he may most fit\-tingly spend his life cherishing the masterpieces presented to humanity by other, much more fortunate individuals.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi283\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tlul\tx3408\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 I went to Ferrara first, since the marshy, reclaimed plain \expndtw3 outside the city was a major Affirmer launching site. I\i  \i0 lin\-\expndtw0 gered a little while at one of my favorite buildings, the Palazzo \expndtw7\i di Diamanti, \i0 shaking my head as helplessly as ever at the \expndtw3 heavy building stones of which it is constructed and which \expndtw6 are cut and faceted like so many enormous jewels. To my \expndtw4 mind, the city itself is a jewel, now somewhat dulled, that sparkled madly in the days of the Este court. One little city, \expndtw5 one tiny, arrogant court-I would so happily have traded \expndtw1 them for the two billion steadfastly boorish Affirmers. Over \expndtw3 sixty years of almost unchallenged political control, and did \expndtw5 an entire planetful of them produce a single competitor for a Tasso or an Ariosto? And then I realized that at least one \expndtw2 native Ferraran would have felt at ease in the world that has_ \expndtw5 just departed from me, its last romantic. I remembered that Savonarola had been born in Ferrara...\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 The plain outside Ferrara also reminded me of the dour \expndtw3 Dominican. The launching field, stretching away for quite a \expndtw0 few flat miles, was strewn with enough possessions discarded \expndtw2 at the last moment, to make a truly towering Bonfire of Van\-ities.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 But what pathetic vanities! Here, a slide rule that some \expndtw2 ship's commander had ordered thrown out before takeoff be\-\expndtw4 cause the last inspection had revealed it to be in excess of what the \i Ship-Classification Manual \i0 listed as the maximum \expndtw-1 number of slide rules necessary for a vessel of that size. There,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2410\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li82\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 a mimeographed collection of tally sheets that had been dropped out of the closing air lock after every last item had \expndtw-1 been checked off as per regulations-one check \i before \i0 the \expndtw0 item by the Ministry of Survival and Preservation, and one \expndtw-1 check \i after \i0 the item by the Ministry of The Journey, Soiled clothing, somewhat worn implements, empty fuel and food \expndtw0 drums lay about on the moist ground. Highly functional ar\-\expndtw-3 ticles all, that had somehow come in the course of time to sin \expndtw-2 against function-and had fallen swiftly from use. And, sur\-\expndtw0 prisingly, an occasional doll, not looking very much like a \expndtw2 doll, to be sure, buj not looking like anything that had an \expndtw1 objective purpose either. Staring about me at the squalid \expndtw-3 debris dotted so rarely with sentiment, I wondered how many \expndtw-2 parents had writhed with shame when, despite their carefully \expndtw-1 repeated admonitions and advance warnings, the last search \expndtw-2 had discovered something in the recesses of a juvenile tunic \expndtw-5 that could only be called an old toy-or, worse yet, a keepsake.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx3902\cf1\lang1033\fs21 I remembered what my recreational adviser had said on\line\expndtw1 that subject, long years ago. "It's not that we believe that\line\expndtw-2 children shouldn't have toys, Fiyatil; we just don't want them\line\expndtw1 to become attached to any particular toy. Our race is going\line\expndtw-1 to leave this planet that's been its home from the beginning.\line We'll be able to take with us only such creatures and objects\line\expndtw-2 as are usable to make other creatures and objects which we'll\line need for sustenance wherever we come down. And because\line\expndtw-1 we can't carry more than so much weight in each ship, we'll\line\expndtw-2 have to select from among the usable objects those which are\line\expndtw-1 essential.\expndtw0\tab\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li62\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "We won't take anything along because it's pretty, or be\-\expndtw-2 cause a lot of people swear by it, or because a lot of people \expndtw0\i think \i0 they need it. We'll take it along only because nothing \expndtw-1 else will do an important job so well. That's why I come to \expndtw-2 your home every month or so to inspect your room, to make \expndtw2 certain that your bureau drawers contain only new things, \expndtw-3 that you're not falling into dangerous habits of sentimentality \expndtw1 that can lead only to Custodianism. You've got far too nice \expndtw0 a set of folks to turn into \i that \i0 kind of person."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi312\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Nonetheless, \i I \i0 chuckled to myself, I had turned into that kind of person. Old Tobletej had been right: the first step on \expndtw-3 the road to ruin had been bureau drawers crammed with odds \expndtw5 and ends of memory. The twig on which had sat the first \expndtw-1  butterfly I'd ever caught, the net with which I'd caught him, \expndtw-3 and the first butterfly himself. The wad of paper that a certain \expndtw-1 twelve-year-old lady had thrown at me. A tattered copy of a\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2458\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 real printed book-no facsimile broadcast, this, but some\-thing that had once known the kiss of type instead of the hot breath of electrons. The small wooden model of Captain \expndtw0 Karma's starship, \i Man's Hope, \i0 which an old spacehand at Lunar Line launching field had given me along with much \expndtw3 misinformation....\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li38\ri14\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Those paunchy bureau drawers! How my parents and teachers had tried to teach me neatness and a hatred of pos\-\expndtw-3 sessions! And here was I, now grown into man's estate, smug \expndtw-1 over my possession of a quantity of artistic masterpieces the \expndtw-6 like of which no Holy Roman Emperor, no Grand Khan, would \expndtw1 have dared to dream about.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 I chuckled once more and started looking for the launching \expndtw1 site robots. They were scattered about, almost invisible in \expndtw-2 the unimportant garbage of the spaceship field. After loading \expndtw-1 the ship, they had simply wandered about until they had run down. I activated them once more and set them to, cleaning the field.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li24\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 This is something I will do in every one of the two hundred \expndtw3 or so launching sites on Earth, and this is the chief reason \expndtw-1 I have been studying robotics. I want Earth to look as pretty \expndtw-3 as possible when she dies. I never could be an Affirmer, I am \expndtw1 afraid; I form strong attachments.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li24\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Feeling as I did, I just couldn't continue on my trip without \expndtw1 taking the quickest, the most cursory glance at Florence. Naturally.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 But as I should have expected, I got drunk on oils and marble and metal work. Florence was empty of Florentines, \expndtw-1 but the glorious galleries were still there. I walked across the \expndtw-2 fine Ponte Vecchio, the only one of the famous Arno bridges \expndtw-3 to have escaped destruction in the Second World War. I came \expndtw0 to Giotto's campanile and the baptistery doors by Ghiberti \expndtw1 and I began to feel despair, desperation. I ran to the Church \expndtw0 of Santa Croce to see Giotto's frescoes and the Convent of St. \expndtw-4 Mark's for Fra Angelico. What good was one year, what could \expndtw0 I see of evert a single city like this in a bare twelve months? \expndtw-1 I could view, I could gallop by, but what would I have time \expndtw-3 to see? I was in the Boboli gardens trying frantically to decide \expndtw-1 whether to look up Michelangelo's "David" which I'd seen once\expndtw-2\scaps  \scaps0 before, or some Denatello which I hadn't, when the \expndtw-1 alarms went off.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Beth of them.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The day before I'd left, Fd put together a small anthro-\expndtw-1 pometer that had originally been developed for locating lost\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 colonists in the Venusian swamps. It was based on an entirely \expndtw5 different design than the big machine that I'd found in the \expndtw2 Hall of Gadgets. Since the circuits were unlike, and they had \expndtw3 been planned for use in entirely different atmospheres, I be\-\expndtw1 lieved they would serve as excellent checks on each other. I'd \expndtw3 set the alarms to the frequency of my flyball communicator and had left the museum fairly confident that the only thing that could make both anthropometers go off would be the \expndtw4 presence of a man other than myself.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 I flew back to the Museum, feeling very confused. Both \expndtw1 pieces of equipment had responded the same way. The .alarm \expndtw4 had gone off, indicating the sudden materialization of Man \expndtw1 on the planet. Then, when the stimulus had disappeared, both \expndtw5 alarms had stopped. No matter how many times I charged the directional dials on each anthropometer, there was not \expndtw2 the faintest suspicion of mankind within their extreme range, \expndtw4 which is a little under one-half of a light-year.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The initial confusion has given way to a strong feeling of discomfort. Something is very wrong here on Earth, some\-thing other than the sun's getting ready to explode in a year. \expndtw4 Possibly I have the nontechnician's blind faith in a piece of \expndtw3 apparatus which I don't fully understand, but I don't believe \expndtw6 that the anthropometers should be acting this way unless \expndtw4 something really abnormal is occurring.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 It has pleased me to look upon this planet as an oceangoing \expndtw5 ship about to sink, and myself as the gallant captain deter\-mined to go down with her. Abruptly, I feel as if the ship were beginning to act like a whale.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 I know what I must do. I'll move a supply of food down to \expndtw5 the Hall of Gadgets and sleep right under the anthropome\-\expndtw4 ters. The alarm usually lasts for \i a \i0 minute or two. I can leap \expndtw3 to my feet, charge the all-directional dials and get enough of \expndtw6 a reading right then to know exactly where the stimulus is \expndtw1 coming from. Then I will pop into'my flyball and investigate. \expndtw4 It's really very simple.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Only, I don't \i like \i0 it.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri38\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 May 17, 2190-I feel thoroughly ashamed of myself, as \expndtw1 only an old man who has been seeing ghosts in the graveyard \expndtw4 should be ashamed. That, in fact, is the only excuse I can \expndtw3 make to myself. I have, I suppose, been thinking too much \expndtw2 about death recently. The coming extinction of Earth and the \expndtw3 solar system; my death which is inevitably involved with it; \expndtw4 the death of millions of creatures of uncounted species, the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2400\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li58\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 death of proud old cities that Man has reared and occupied\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li62\sl-197\slmult0\tlul\tx1387\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 for centuries\expndtw0\tab Well, perhaps the association with ghosties\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li58\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\fs21 and beasties and other strange phenomena is understand\-\expndtw1 able. But I \i was \i0 getting frightened.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li53\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 When the alarms went off again this morning, I got a \expndtw0 directional reading. My destination was the Appalachian \expndtw1 Mountain region in eastern North America.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The moment I got out of the flyball and took in the pale \expndtw-2 azure fog covering the cave mouth in front of me, I began to \expndtw1 understand-and feel ashamed. Through the fog, which \expndtw2 thinned in one place and thickened in others as I watched, \expndtw-3 I could see several bodies lying on the floor of the cave. Ob\-\expndtw1 viously, one of them had to be alive for the anthropometer \expndtw-3 to have reacted as soon as a patch of berrillit blue got meager \expndtw2 enough to make the presence of a human mind detectable. \expndtw0 I walked around to the back of the cave and found no exit.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 I went back to the Museum in the flyball and returned \expndtw-2 with the necessary equipment. I deactivated the berrillit blue \expndtw0 fog at the entrance and walked inside cautiously.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The interior of the cave, which had evidently been fur\-\expndtw-5 nished as a domestic and comfortable hideout, was completely \expndtw-2 wrecked. Somebody had managed to get an activator as well \expndtw0 as a quantity of berrillit blue which had not yet been given \expndtw-1 any particular shape and which, therefore, was about as sta\-\expndtw0 ble as hydrogen and oxygen-if it is permissible to use a metaphor from chemistry to illustrate negative force-field concepts. The berrillit blue had been activated as a sort of curtain across the mouth of the eave and had blown up im\-\expndtw1 mediately. But, since the activator was still operating and \expndtw2 the entrance was fairly narrow, it continued to function as \expndtw1 a curtain of insulating negative force, a curtain which had \expndtw-2 holes in it through which one could occasionally "peek" by means of the anthropometer at the people imprisoned inside.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 There were three bodies near the entrance, two male and one female, rather youthful-looking. From the quantity and \expndtw-4 type pf statuary on the walls of the cave, it was easy to deduce \expndtw-1 that these people had belonged to one of the numerous reli\-\expndtw0 gious Custodian groups, probably the \i Fire in the Heavens c\expndtw-3\i0 ult. When, in the last week of the exodus, the Affirmers had \expndtw-2 denounced the Crohiik Agreement and stated that the Affir\-\expndtw0 mation of Life required that even those who didn't Affirm \expndtw-2 had to be protected against themselves, these people had ev\-\expndtw2 idently taken to the mountains. Evading the subsequent \expndtw3 highly effective search, they had managed to stay hidden\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2405\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 until the last great vessel left. Then, suspecting as I had that \expndtw1 at least one scout ship would return for a final round-up, they \expndtw4 had investigated the properties, of the anthropometer and \expndtw5 found out about the only insulator, berrillit blue. Unfortu\-\expndtw4 nately, they had not found out enough.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Deep in the rear of the cave, a body twisted brokenly to meet me. It was a young woman. My first reaction was\scaps  \scaps0 ab\-\expndtw5 solute astonishment at the fact that she was still alive. The \expndtw2 explosion seemed to have smashed her thoroughly below the \expndtw4 waist. She had crawled from the cave mouth to the interior \expndtw3 where the group had stored most of their food and water. As I teetered, momentarily undecided whether to leave her and \expndtw0 get medication and blood plasma from a hospital in the region \expndtw4 or to risk moving her immediately, she rolled over on her \expndtw-1 back.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 She had been covering a year-old infant with her body, \expndtw2 evidently uncertain when the berrillit might blow again. And \expndtw0 somehow, in spite of what must have been tremendous agony, \expndtw3 she had been feeding the child.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 I bent down and examined the baby. He was quite dirty \expndtw5 and covered with his mother's blood, but otherwise un\-harmed. I picked him up and, in answer to the question in \expndtw2 the woman's eyes, I nodded.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "He'll be all right," I said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri19\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 She started what may have been a nod in reply and stopped \expndtw3 halfway through to die. I examined her carefully and, I will \expndtw1 admit, \i a \i0 shade frantically. There was no pulse-no heartbeat.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\li5\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 I took the child back to the Museum and constructed a \expndtw0 sort of play pen for him out of empty telescope sections. Then \expndtw3 I went back to the cave with three robots and had the people \expndtw6 buried. I admit the gesture was superfluous, but it wasn't \expndtw3 only a matter of neatness. However fundamental our differ\-\expndtw2 ences, we were all of Custodian persuasion, generally speak\-\expndtw-1 ing. It somehow made me feel as if I were snapping my fingers \expndtw2 in the face of the entire smug Affirmation to respect \i Fire-in-\expndtw3 Heaven \i0 eccentricities in this fashion.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri29\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 After the robots had completed their work, I placed a piece \expndtw4 of the religious statuary (it was remarkably badly done, by \expndtw6 the way) at the head of each grave and even said a short prayer, or rather a sermon. I developed the thought that I \expndtw3 had suggested approximately a week earlier to some deer- \expndtw2 to wit, that in the midst of life we are in death. I did not joke \expndtw1 about it, however, but spoke seriously on the subject for sev-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2395\sl-202\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 eral minutes. The robots who were my audience seemed even \expndtw5 less excited by the intelligence than the deer had been.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li58\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 May 21, 2190-I am annoyed. I am very, very annoyed \expndtw3 and my great problem at the moment is that I lack an object on which to expend my annoyance.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 The child has been an incredible amount of trouble.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 I took him to the largest medical museum in the northern \expndtw4 hemisphere and had him thoroughly examined by the best pediatric diagnostic machinery, He seems to be in excellent health, which is fortunate for both of us. And his dietary requirements, while not the same as mine, are fairly simple. \expndtw2 I got a full tape on the kind of food he needs and, after a few \expndtw3 readjustments in the commissary of the Museum of Modern \expndtw5 Astronautics, I have arranged for this food to be prepared \expndtw3 and delivered to him daily. Unfortunately, he does not seem \expndtw6 to regard this arrangement, which took up an inordinate \expndtw3 amount of my time, as wholly satisfactory.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 For one thing, he will not accept food from the regular \expndtw3 robot nursemaid which I have activated for him. This, I sus\-\expndtw2 pect, is because of his parents' odd beliefs: he probably has \expndtw1 never encountered mechanical affection before. He will only \expndtw4 eat when I feed him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 That situation alone is intolerable, but I have found it \expndtw3 almost impossible to leave him guarded by the robot nurse\-maid. Though he does little more than crawl, he manages to \expndtw4 do this at surprisingly fast pace and is always disappearing \expndtw3 into dark corridors of the museum. Then an alarm is flashed \expndtw2 to me and I have to break off my examination of the gigantic \expndtw0 palace of the Dalai Lama, the Potala, and come scudding back \expndtw4 from Lhasa halfway across the world to the Museum.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li5\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Even then it would take us hours to find him-and by "us" \expndtw-1 I mean every robot at my disposal-if I were not able to resort \expndtw5 to the anthropometer. This admirable gadget points out his \expndtw0 hiding place very swiftly; and so, pulling him out of the firing \expndtw3 chamber of the Space Howitzer in the Hall of Weapons, I \expndtw5 return him to his play pen. Then, if I dare, and if it is not \expndtw2 time for him to be fed, I may return-briefly-to the Tibetan \expndtw5 plateau.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 I am at present engaged in constructing a sort of enormous \expndtw2 cage for him, with automatic heating and toilet facilities and devices that will screen out undesirable animals, insects, and \expndtw5 reptiles. Though this is taking up far too much of my time, \expndtw4 it will be an excellent investment, I believe.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2405\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 I don't know quite what to do about the feeding problem. \expndtw5 The only solution I can find in any of the literature on the \expndtw4 subject that offers promise is the one about letting him go \expndtw3 hungry if he refuses food from normal sources. After a brief \expndtw0 experiment, however, in which he seemed cheerfully resigned \expndtw2 to starvation, I was forced to give in. I now handle every one of his meals.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 The trouble is that I don't know whom to blame. Since I have been a Custodian from early manhood, I failed to see the need to reproduce. I have never been interested even slightly in children. I know very little about them and care \expndtw-2 less.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li24\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 I have always felt that my attitude was admirably summed \expndtw4 up by Socrates' comments in the \i Symposium: \i0 "Who, upon \expndtw3 reflecting on Homer and Hesiod and other such great poets, \expndtw6 would not rather have their children than ordinary human \expndtw2 ones? Who would not like to emulate them in the creation of \expndtw3 children such as theirs, which have preserved their memory \expndtw4 and given them everlasting glory?... Many are the temples which have been raised in their honor for the sake of such \expndtw3 children as they have had, which were never raised in honor \expndtw4 of anyone for the sake of his mortal children."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li14\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Unfortunately, we are the only two humans alive on Earth, \expndtw2 this child and I. We are going to our doom together; we ride \expndtw6 the same round tumbril. And the treasures of the world, \expndtw4 which were wholly mine less than a week ago, now belong \expndtw3 at least partially to him. I\i  \i0 wish we could discuss the matters \expndtw4 at issue, not only to arrive at more equitable arrangements, \expndtw2 but also for the sheer pleasure of the discussion. I have come \expndtw1 to the conclusion that I began this journal out of unconscious \expndtw3 terror when I discovered, after the Affirmers left, that I was \expndtw1 completely alone.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 I find myself getting very wistful for conversation, for ideas \expndtw4 other than my own, for opinions against which mine might be measured. Yet according to the literature on the subject, \expndtw3 while this child may begin talking any day now, we will be immersed in catastrophe long before he learns to argue with \expndtw4 me. I find that sad, however inevitable.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 How I wander! The fact is that once again I am being \expndtw0 prevented from studying art as I would like". I am an old man \expndtw2 and should have no responsibilities; I have all but laid down my life for the privilege of this study. It is extremely vexing.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 And conversation. I can just imagine the kind of conver\-\expndtw7 sation I might be having with an Affirmer at the moment,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2390\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 were one to have been stranded here with me. What dullness, \expndtw3 what single-minded biological idiocy! What crass refusal to look at, let alone admit, the beauty his species has been sev\-\expndtw7 enty millennia in the making! The most he might have \expndtw5 learned if he is European, say, is a bit about the accepted \expndtw2 artists of his culture. What would he know of Chinese paint\-\expndtw-1 ings, for example, or cave art? Would he be able to understand \expndtw2 that in each there were primitive periods followed by eras of lusty development, followed in turn by a consolidation of ar\-\expndtw3 tistic gains and an increase in formalization, the whole to be rounded off by a decadent, inner-groping epoch which led \expndtw5 almost invariably into another primitive and lusty period? That these have occurred again and again in the major cul\-\expndtw4 tures so that even the towering genius of a Michelangelo, a \expndtw3 Shakespeare, a Beethoven will likely be repeated-in some\-what different terms-in another complete cycle? That there \expndtw2 was a Michelangelo, Shakespeare, and Beethoven in each of \expndtw4 several different flower periods in ancient Egyptian art? '\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li34\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 How, could an Affirmer understand such concepts when he \expndtw6 lacks the basic information necessary to understanding? \expndtw4 When their ships departed from the moribund solar system \expndtw5 laden only with immediately usable artifacts? When they \expndtw1 refused to let their offspring keep childhood treasures for fear \expndtw2 of developing sentimentality, so that when they came to col\-\expndtw0 onize Procyon XII there would be no tears for either the world \expndtw6 that had died or the puppy that had been left behind?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 And yet history plays such incredible jokes on Man! They \expndtw4 who ran away from their museums, who kept nothing but a \expndtw2 cold microfilm record of what lay in their investment houses \expndtw5 of culture, will learn that Man's sentimentality is not to be frustrated. The bleak, efficient ships that brought them to \expndtw3 these alien worlds will become museums of the past as they \expndtw4 oxidize out of existence on the strange sands. Their cruelly \expndtw3 functional lines will become the inspiration for temples and \expndtw2 alcoholic tears.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li29\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 What in the world is happening to me? How I run on! After \expndtw4 all, I merely wanted to explain why I was annoyed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\ri67\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 May 29, 2190-I have made several decisions, I don't know \expndtw5 if I will be able to implement the most important of them, \expndtw3 but I will try. In order, however, to give myself what I need \expndtw5 most at the moment-time-I will write much less in this \expndtw4 journal, if I write any more at all. I will try very hard to be \expndtw0 brief.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2419\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 To begin with the least important decision: I have named \expndtw0 the child Leonardo. Why I chose to name him after a man \expndtw-2 who, for all of his talents-in fact, \i because \i0 of his talents-I \expndtw3 regard as the most spectacular failure in the history of art, \expndtw-4 I do not know. But Leonardo was a well-rounded man, some\-\expndtw-1 thing which the Affirmers are not-and something which I \expndtw1 am beginning to admit I am not.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 By the way, the child recognizes his name. He is not yet able to pronounce it, but it is positively miraculous the way he recognizes it. And he makes a sound which is very like \expndtw0 mine. In fact, I might say-\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Let me go on.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx4229\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 I have decided to attempt an escape from the Earth-with\line Leonardo. My reasons are many and complex, and I'm not\line\expndtw1 certain that I understand them all, but one thing I do know:\line I have felt responsibility for a life other than my own and\line\expndtw-1 can no longer evade it.\expndtw0\tab\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 This is not a tardy emergence into Affirmer doctrine, but \expndtw0 in a very real sense my own ideas come to judgment. Since \expndtw-3 I believe in the reality of beauty, especially beauty made with \expndtw0 the mind and hands of man, I can follow no other course.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 I am an old man and will achieve little with the rest of \expndtw0 my life. Leonardo is an infant: he represents raw potential; \expndtw-2 he might become anything. A song beyond Shakespeare's. A \expndtw-1 thought above Newton, above Einstein. Or an evil beyond \expndtw0 Gilles de Retz, a horror past Hitler.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri24\sb5\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 But the potential should be realized. I think, under my \expndtw-3 tutelage, it is less likely to be evil and there I have a potential \expndtw-1 to be realized.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri5\sl-206\slmult0\qj\tlul\tx4037\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 In any case, even if Leonardo represents a zero personally, \expndtw-2 he may \i carry \i0 the germ-plasm of a Buddha, of a Euripides, of \expndtw0 a Preud. And \i that \i0 potential must be realized....\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri24\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 There is a ship. Its name is \i Man's Hope \i0 and it was the first \expndtw-1 ship to reach the stars, almost a century ago when it had just been discovered that our sun would explode and become a \expndtw3 nova in a little less than a hundred years. It was the ship \expndtw-1 that discovered for Man the heart-quickening fact that other \expndtw2 stars have planets and that many of those planets are hab\-\expndtw1 itable to him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri38\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 It was a long time ago that Captain Karma brought his \expndtw0 starship back down on the soil of Earth with the news that \expndtw-3 escape was possible. That was long before I was born, long \expndtw1 before humanity divided unequally into Custodian and Af-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2405\sl-206\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 firmer and long, long before either group were the unwinking \expndtw-1 fanatics they had become five years ago.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The ship is in the Museum of Modern Astronautics. I know \expndtw0 it has been kept in good condition, I also know that twenty \expndtw-1 years ago, before the Affirmers had developed the position \expndtw0 that absolutely nothing might be taken physically from a \expndtw-3 museum, the ship was equipped with the latest Leugio Drive. \expndtw0 The motive was that, if it were needed on Exodus Day, it \expndtw1 might make the trip to a star in months instead of the years it had required originally.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 The only thing that I do not know is whether I, Fiyatil, \expndtw-1 the Custodian of Custodians and art critic extraordinary, can \expndtw3 learn to run it in the time that Leonardo and I have left.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 But as one of my favorite comic characters remarked about the possibility of a man chopping his own head off: a man can \expndtw7\i try....\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 There is something else on my mind, even more exciting \expndtw1 in a way, but this comes first. I find myself looking at the \expndtw-3 Sun a good deal these days. And very searchingly, too. Very.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri19\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 November 11, 2190-1 can do it With the help of two \expndtw-2 robots which I will modify for the purpose, I can do it. Leo\-\expndtw1 nardo and I could leave immediately. But I have my other \expndtw-3 project to complete.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 And this is my other project. I am going to use all the \expndtw0 empty space in the ship. It was built originally for different \expndtw2 motors and a very large crew, and I am going to use that \expndtw-2 space as a bureau drawer. Into that bureau drawer I will stuff the keepsakes of humanity, the treasures of its childhood and \expndtw0 adolescence-at least as many as I can get in.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 For weeks I have been collecting treasures from all over the world. Incredible pottery, breath-taking friezes, glorious \expndtw0 statuary, and oil paintings almost beyond \i counting litter the \expndtw-2\i0 corridors of the museum. Brueghel is piled on Bosch, Bosch \expndtw1 on Durer, I am going to, bring a little of everything to that \expndtw0 star toward which I point my ship, a little to show what the \expndtw1 real things were like. I am including things like the holo\-graph manuscripts of Jane Austen's \i Pride and Prejudice, \expndtw-2\i0 Beethoven's Ninth Symphony, Gogol's \i Dead Souls, \i0 Mark \expndtw-1 Twain's \i Huckleberry Finn, \i0 and holographs of Dickens's tet\-\expndtw1 ters and Lincoln's speeches. There are many others, but I cannot take everything. Within responsible limits, I must \expndtw-3 please myself.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li235\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw7\fs21 Therefore, I am not taking anything from the Sistine\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2400\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Chapel ceiling. I have carved out two bits of the "Last Judg\-\expndtw-1 ment" instead. They are my favorites: the soul that suddenly \expndtw0 realizes that it is condemned, and the flayed skin on which Michelangelo painted his own portrait.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The only trouble is that fresco weighs so much! Weight, \expndtw0 weight, weight-it is almost all I think about now. Even \expndtw-6 Leonardo follows me about and says "Weight, weight, weight!" \expndtw-2 He pronounces nothing else so well.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Still, what should I take of Picasso? A handful of oils, yes, \expndtw1 but I must take the "Guernica." And there is more weight.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 I have some wonderful Russian copper utensils and some \expndtw-2 Ming bronze bowls. I have a lime spatula from Eastern New \expndtw-1 Guinea made of oiled wood that has a delightfully carved \expndtw2 handle (it was used in chewing betel nut and lime). I have \expndtw1 a wonderful alabaster figure of a cow from ancient Sumer. I have an incredible silver Buddha from northern India. I \expndtw-4 have some Dahomean brass figures of a grace to shame Egypt and Greece. I have a carved ivory container from Benin, West \expndtw0 Africa, showing a thoroughly Fifteenth Century European \expndtw-4 Christ on the cross. I have the "Venus" of Willendorf, Austria, \expndtw0 the figure that was carved in the Aurignacian epoch of the \expndtw1 paleolithic and which is part of the artistic tradition of the \expndtw0 "Venus" art of prehistoric mankind.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 I have miniatures by Hilliard and Holbein, satiric prints \expndtw1 by Hogarth, a beautiful Kangra painting of the eighteenth \expndtw0 century on paper that shows astonishingly little Mughal in\-fluence, Japanese prints by Takamaru and Hiroshige-and \expndtw-2 where may I stop? How may I choose?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 I have pages from the Book of Kells, which is an illumi\-\expndtw-4 nated hand-executed manuscript of almost unmatched beauty; \expndtw0 and I have pages from the Gutenberg Bible, put together in \expndtw-1 the infancy of printing, which has illuminated pages to give the \i effect \i0 of a hand-copied manuscript, because the printers \expndtw0 didn't want their invention discovered. I have a tughra of \expndtw-4 Sulaiman the Magnificent, a calligraphic emblem that formed \expndtw-1 headings for his imperial edicts; and I have a Hebrew Scroll of the Law whose calligraphy outshines the jewels which \expndtw0 encrust the poles on which it is wound.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 I have Coptic textiles of the sixth century and Alencon \expndtw2 lace of the sixteenth. I have a magnificent red krater vase \expndtw-2 from one of Athens' maritime colonies and a wooden figure\-\expndtw1 head of a minister from a New England frigate. I have a \expndtw0 Rubens nude and an Odalisque by Matisse.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2155\li2400\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 In architecture-I am taking the Chinese \i Compendium \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\i of Architecture \i0 which I think has never been equaled as a \expndtw1 text and a model of a Le Corbusier house built by him. I \expndtw0 would love to take one building, the Taj Mahal, but I \i am \expndtw-3\i0 taking the pearl that the Mogul gave to her for whom he built \expndtw1 the ineffable tomb. It is a reddish pearl, shaped like a pear and about three and a half inches long; shortly after it was \expndtw-3 buried with her, it turned up in the possession of an Emperor \expndtw0 of China who set it on gold leaves and surrounded it with \expndtw1 jade and emeralds. At the turn of the nineteenth century, it \expndtw-1 was sold somewhere in the Near East for a tiny, ridiculous \expndtw0 sum and ended in the Louvre.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li43\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 And a tool: a small stone fistaxe, the first think known to \expndtw0 have been made by human creatures.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4 All this I have collected near the ship. But I've sorted none \expndtw-1 of it. And I suddenly remember, I have collected as yet no \expndtw0 furniture, no decorated weapons, no etched glass-\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 I must hurry, hurry!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri24\sb202\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 November 2190-Shortly after I finished the-last entry, \expndtw0 I glanced upward. There were green specks on the sun and strange orange streamers seemed to plume out to all points \expndtw-2 of the compass. Evidently there was not to be a year. These \expndtw0 were the symptoms of death that the astronomers had pre\-\expndtw-4 dicted.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4 So there was an end to my collecting-and my sorting was \expndtw-3 done in less than a day. The one thing I suddenly found I had \expndtw-2 to do, when it became obvious that my sections of Michel\-\expndtw-1 angelo would be too heavy, was to go to the Sistine Chapel ceiling after all. This time I cat out a relatively tiny thing- \expndtw1 the finger of the Creation as it stabs life into Adam. And I \expndtw-2 decided to take Da Vinci's "La Gioconda," even though his \expndtw-1 "Beatrice d'Este" is more to my taste: the Mona Lisa's smile \expndtw-2 belongs to the world.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 All posters are represented by one Toulouse-Lautrec. I \expndtw-3 dropped the "Guernica"; Picasso is represented instead by an \expndtw0 oil from his blue period and a single striking ceramic plate. \expndtw-2 I dropped Harold Paris's "The Eternal Judgment" because of \expndtw1 its bulk; all I have of his now is the print \i Buchenwald \i0 #2, \expndtw-3\i "Where Are We Going?" \i0 And somehow or other, in my last-\expndtw1 minute haste, I seem to have selected a large number of \expndtw0 Safavid bottles from Iran of the sixteenth and seventeenth \expndtw-2 centuries. Let future historians and psychologists puzzle out the reasons for my choices: they are now irrevocable.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2155\li2390\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2 We are proceeding toward Alpha Centauri and should ar-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 rive in five months. How will we and all our treasures be \expndtw-2 received, I wonder? I suddenly feel insanely cheerful. I don't think it has anything to do with my rather belated realization \expndtw0 that I, who have so little talent and have failed so miserably in the arts, will achieve a place in the history of art like no \expndtw-1 other man-a kind of esthetic Noah.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 No, it is the fact that I am carrying both the future and \expndtw1 the past to a rendezvous where they still have a chance to come to terms. A moment ago Leonardo bounced a ball \expndtw2 against the visiplate and, looking at it, I observed that old \expndtw-4 Sol was expanding apoplectically. As I remarked to him then: "I find, to my astonishment, that in the midst of death, I am- \expndtw2 at last, at last!-truly in life."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi38\li567\ri1152\sb1123\sl-475\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw17\b\fs26 Phoenix \par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi40\li567\ri1151\sb100\sl-475\slmult0\expndtw-18\b0 CLARK  ASHTON  SMITH\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li14\ri14\sb418\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Rodis and Hilar had climbed from their natal caverns to the top chamber of the high observatory tower. Pressed close \expndtw-2 together, for warmth as well as love, they stood at an eastern \expndtw-3 window looking forth on hills and valleys dim with perennial \expndtw0 starlight. They had come up to watch the rising of the sun: \expndtw-3 that sun which they had never seen except as an orb of black\-\expndtw-1 ness, occluding the zodiacal stars in \i its \i0 course from horizon \expndtw-3 to horizon.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri24\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Thus their ancestors had seen it for millenniums. By some \expndtw-2 freak of cosmic law, unforeseen, and inexplicable to astron\-\expndtw0 omers and physicists, the sun's cooling had been compara\-\expndtw-2 tively sudden, and the earth had not suffered the long-drawn \expndtw-1 complete desiccation of such planets as Mercury and Mars. \expndtw1 Rivers, lakes, seas, had frozen solid; and the air itself had \expndtw-3 congealed, all in a term of years historic rather than geologic. \expndtw0 Millions of the earth's inhabitants had perished, trapped by the glacial ice, the centigrade cold. The rest, armed with all \expndtw1 the resources of science, had found time to entrench them-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2390\sl-202\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 selves against the cosmic night in a world of ramified caverns, \expndtw-1 dug by atomic excavators far below the surface,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi269\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Here, by the light of artificial orbs, and the heat drawn from the planet's still-molten depths, life went on much as \expndtw0 it had done in the outer world. Trees, fruits, grasses, grains, \expndtw-1 vegetables, were grown in isotope-stimulated soil \i or \i0 hydro-\expndtw0 panic gardens, affording food, renewing a breathable atmo\-sphere. Domestic animals were kept; and birds flew; and insects crawled or fluttered. The rays considered necessary \expndtw-1 for life and health were afforded by the sunbright lamps that \expndtw2 shone eternally in all the caverns.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Little of the old science was lost; but, on the other hand, \expndtw-2 there was now little advance. Existence had become the con\-\expndtw-3 serving of a fire menaced by inexorable night. Generation by \expndtw1 generation a mysterious sterility had lessened the numbers \expndtw0 of the race from millions to a few thousands. As time went \expndtw-3 on, a similar sterility began to affect animals; and even plants \expndtw-1 no longer flourished with their first abundance. No biologist \expndtw1 could determine the cause with certainty.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Perhaps man, as well as other terrestrial life-forms, was \expndtw0 past his prime, and had begun to undergo collectively the inevitable senility that comes to the individual. Or perhaps, having been a surface-dweller throughout most of his evo\-lution, he was inadaptable to the cribbed and prisoned life, \expndtw1 the caverned light and air; and was dying slowly from the \expndtw0 deprivation of things he had almost forgotten.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Indeed, the world that had once flourished beneath a living \expndtw-1 sun was little more than a legend now, a tradition preserved by art and literature and history. Its beetling Babelian cities, \expndtw2\i its \i0 fecund hills and plains, were swathed impenetrably in \expndtw1 snow and ice and solidified air. No living man had gazed \expndtw0 upon it, except from the night-bound towers maintained as \expndtw-2 observatories.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tlul\tx720\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Still, however, the dreams of men were often lit by pri\-\expndtw-3 mordial memories, in which the sun shone on rippling waters \expndtw1 and waving trees and grass. And their waking hours were \expndtw3 sometimes touched by an undying nostalgia for the lost \expndtw4 earth....\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Alarmed by the prospect of racial extinction, the most able \expndtw-1 and brilliant savants had conceived a project that was seem\-ingly no less desperate than fantastic. The plan, if executed, \expndtw0 might lead to failure or even to the planet's destruction. But \expndtw-3 all the necessary steps had now been taken toward its launch\-\expndtw-5 ing.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2390\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li101\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 It was of this plan that Rodis and Hilar spoke, standing \expndtw0 clasped in each other's arms, as they waited for the rising of \expndtw1 the dead sun.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li106\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "And you must go?" said Rodis, with averted eyes and \expndtw1 voice that quavered a little.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li101\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "Of course. It is a duty and an honor. I am regarded as \expndtw0 the foremost of the younger atomicists. The actual placing \expndtw-1 and timing of the bombs will devolve largely upon me."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "But-are you sure of success? There are so many risks, \expndtw-1 . Hilar." The girl shuddered, clasping her lover with convul\-\expndtw0 sive tightness.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li96\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "We are not sure of anything," Hilar admitted. "But, \expndtw3 granting that our calculations are correct, the multiple \expndtw1 charges of fissionable materials, including more than half \expndtw0 the solar elements, should start chain-reactions that will re\-\expndtw-1 store the sun to its former incandescence. Of course, the ex\-\expndtw0 plosion may be too sudden and too violent, involving the \expndtw1 nearer planets in the formation of a nova. But we do not \expndtw-1 believe that this will happen-since an explosion of such \expndtw1 magnitude would require instant disruption of \i all \i0 the sun's \expndtw-1 elements. Such disruption should not occur without a starter \expndtw0 for each separate atomic structure. Science has never been able to break down all the known elements. If it had been, \expndtw-2 the earth itself would undoubtedly have suffered destruction \expndtw0 in the old atomic wars."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li91\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Hilar paused, and his eyes dilated, kindling with a vi\-\expndtw-1 sionary fire.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li82\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "How glorious," he went on, "to use for a purpose of cosmic \expndtw-2 renovation the deadly projectiles designed by our forefathers \expndtw-3 only to blast and destroy. Stored in sealed caverns, they have \expndtw0 not been used since men abandoned the earth's surface so many millenniums ago. Nor have the old spaceships been \expndtw-1 used either- An interstellar drive was never perfected; and \expndtw-3 our voyagings were always limited to the other worlds of our \expndtw-2 own system-none of which was inhabited, or inhabitable. \expndtw1 Since the sun's cooling and darkening, there has been no \expndtw-1 object in visiting any of them. But the ships too were stored \expndtw-2 away. And the newest and speediest one, powered with anti-\expndtw-1 gravity magnets, has been made ready for our voyage to the \expndtw-2 sun."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li72\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Rodis listened silently, with an awe that seemed to have subdued her misgivings, while Hilar continued to speak of \expndtw-2 the tremendous project upon which he, with six other chosen \expndtw5 technicians, was about to embark. In the meanwhile, the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2477\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 black sun \i rose \i0 slowly into heavens thronged with the cold ironic blazing of innumerable stare, among which no planet shone. It blotted out the sting of the Scorpion, poised at that \expndtw1 hour above the eastern hills. It was smaller but nearer than \expndtw0 the igneous orb of history and legend. In its center, like a \expndtw-2 Cyclopean eye, there burned a single spot of dusky red fire, \expndtw-4 believed to mark the eruption of some immense volcano amid \expndtw0 the measureless and cinder-blackened landscape.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 To one standing in the ice-bound valley below the observ\-\expndtw-1 atory, it would have seemed that the tower's lighted window \expndtw-2 was a yellow eye that stared back from the dead earth to that \expndtw-1 crimson eye of the dead sun.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li24\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Soon," said Hilar, "you will climb to this chamber-and \expndtw-3 see the morning that none has seen for a century of centuries. \expndtw-2 The thick- ice will thaw from the peaks and valleys, running \expndtw0 in streams to re-molten lakes and oceans. The liquefied air \expndtw-1 will rise in clouds and vapors, touched with the spectrum-\expndtw1 tinted splendor of the light. Again, across earth, will blow \expndtw0 the winds of the four quarters; and grass and flowers will grow, and trees burgeon from tiny saplings. And man, the \expndtw-2 dweller in closed caves and abysses, will return to his proper \expndtw1 heritage."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\fs21 "How wonderful it all sounds," murmured Rodis. "But... you \expndtw-2 will come back to me?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "I will come back to you... in the sunlight," said Hilar.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri34\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The space-vessel \i Phosphor \i0 lay in a huge cavern beneath that region which had once been known as the Atlas Moun\-\expndtw-1 tains. The cavern's mile-thick roof had been partly blasted \expndtw-2 away by atomic disintegrators. A great circular shaft slanted \expndtw-3 upward to the surface, forming a mouth in the mountain-side through which the stars of the Zodiac were visible. The prow \expndtw0 of the \i Phosphor \i0 pointed at the stars.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li5\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 All was now ready for its launching. A score of dignitaries \expndtw-2 and. savants, looking like strange ungainly monsters in suits \expndtw1 and helmets worn against the spatial'cold that had invaded \expndtw0 the cavern, were present for the occasion. Hiiar and his six \expndtw-1 companions had already gone aboard the \i Phosphor \i0 and had \expndtw-2 closed its air-locks.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Inscrutable and silent behind their metalloid helmets, the watchers waited. There was no ceremony, no speaking or \expndtw-4 waving of farewells; nothing to indicate that a world's destiny \expndtw-1 impended on the mission of the vessel.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2155\li2395\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Like mouths of fire-belching dragons the stern-rockets \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 flared, and the \i Phosphor, \i0 like a wingless bird, soared upward \expndtw2 through the great shaft and vanished.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Hilar, gazing through a rear port, saw for a few moments \expndtw-2 the lamp-bright window of that tower in which he had stood so recently with Rodis. The window was a golden spark that \expndtw5 swirled downward in abysses of devouring night-and \expndtw-1 was extinguished. Behind it, he knew, his beloved stood \expndtw2 watching the \i Phosphor's \i0 departure. It was a symbol, he \expndtw-6 mused\expndtw30 ...\expndtw-6  a symbol of life, of memory\expndtw25 ...\expndtw-6  of the suns them\-\expndtw-1 selves\expndtw62 ...\expndtw-1  of all things that flash briefly and fall into ob\-\expndtw-5 livion.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 But such thoughts, he felt, should be dismissed. They were \expndtw-3 unworthy of one whom his fellows had appointed as a light-\expndtw-2 bringer, a Prometheus who should rekindle the dead sun and \expndtw0 re-lumine the dark world.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 There were no days, only hours of eternal starlight, to measure the time in which they sped outward through the \expndtw2 void. The rockets, used for initial propulsion, no longer \expndtw-3 flamed astern; and the vessel flew in darkness, except for the \expndtw-2 gleaming Argus eyes of its ports, drawn now by the mighty \expndtw1 gravitational drag of the blind sun.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Test-flights had been considered unnecessary for the \i Phos\-\expndtw-1 phor. \i0 All its machinery was in perfect condition; and the mechanics involved were simple and easily mastered. None \expndtw-2 of its crew had ever been in extraterrestrial space before; but \expndtw0 all were well-trained in astronomy, mathematics, and the various techniques essential to a voyage between worlds. \expndtw-3 There were two navigators; one rocket-engineer; and two en\-\expndtw-2 gineers who would operate the powerful generators, charged \expndtw1 with a negative magnetism reverse to that of gravity, with \expndtw-1 which they hoped to approach, circumnavigate, and even\-\expndtw5 tually depart in safety from an orb enormously heavier \expndtw8 than the system's nine planets merged into one. Hilar \expndtw-1 and his assistant, Hans Joas, completed the personnel. Their \expndtw1 sole task was the timing, landing, and distribution of the \expndtw-8 bombs.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 All were descendants of a mixed race with Latin, Semitic, \expndtw-1 Hamitic and negroid ancestry: a race that had dwelt, before \expndtw0 the sun's cooling, in countries south of the Mediterranean, \expndtw-1 where the former deserts had been rendered fertile by a vast \expndtw0 irrigation-system of lakes and canals.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 This mixture, after so many centuries of cavern life, had \expndtw-2 produced a characteristically slender, well-knit type, of short \expndtw0 or medium stature and pale olive complexion. The features\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2390\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 were often of negroid softness; the general physique marked by a delicacy verging upon decadence.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 To an extent surprising, in view of the vast intermediate \expndtw-1 eras of historic and geographic change, this people had pre\-\expndtw-3 served many pre-atomic traditions and even something of the \expndtw-1 old classic Mediterranean cultures. Their language bore dis\-\expndtw1 tinct traces of Latin, Greek, Spanish and Arabic.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li38\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Remnants of other peoples, those of sub-equatorial Asia and America, had survived the universal glaciation by bur\-\expndtw-2 rowing underground. Radio communication had been main\-\expndtw0 tained with these peoples till within fairly recent times, and \expndtw1 had then ceased. It was believed that they had died out, or \expndtw2 had retrograded into savagery, losing the civilization to \expndtw0 which they had once attained.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li24\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Hour after hour, intervaled only by sleep and eating, the \expndtw-3\i Phosphor \i0 sped onward through the black unvarying void. To \expndtw2 Hilar, it seemed at times that they flew merely through a \expndtw-1 darker and vaster cavern whose remote walls were spangled \expndtw4 by the stars as if by radiant orbs. He had thought to feel \expndtw-2 the overwhelming vertigo of unbottomed and undirectioned \expndtw-3 space. Instead, there was a weird sense of circumscription by \expndtw2 the ambient night and emptiness, together with a sense of \expndtw0 cyclic repetition, as if all that was happening had happened \expndtw1 many times before and must recur often through endless future kalpas.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Had he and his companions gone forth in former cycles to \expndtw-1 the relighting of former perished suns? Would they go forth \expndtw2 again, to rekindle suns that would flame and die in some \expndtw-1 posterior universe? Had there always been, would ther,e al\-\expndtw0 ways be, a Rodis who awaited his return?\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Of these thoughts he spoke only to Han Joas, who shared \expndtw2 something of his innate mysticism and his trend toward \expndtw-1 cosmic speculation, But mostly the two talked of the mys\-\expndtw-2 teries of the atom and its typhonic powers, and discussed the \expndtw-1 problems with which they would shortly be confronted.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The ship carried several hundred disruption bombs, many \expndtw0 of untried potency: the unused heritage of ancient wars that \expndtw1 had left chasm scars and lethal radioactive areas, some a \expndtw0 thousand miles or more in extent, for the planetary glaciers \expndtw-4 to cover. There were bombs of iron, calcium, sodium, helium, \expndtw-1 hydrogen, sulphur, potassium, magnesium, copper, chro\-\expndtw2 mium, strontium, barium, zinc elements that had all been anciently revealed in the solar spectrum. Even at the apex \expndtw1 of their madness, the warring nations had wisely refrained\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2395\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 from employing more than a few such bombs at any one time. \expndtw5 Chain-reactions had sometimes been started; but, fortu\-\expndtw4 nately, had died out.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi269\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 Hilar and Han Joas hoped to distribute the bombs at \expndtw12 intervals over the sun's entire circumference; prefer\-\expndtw8 ably in large deposits of the same elements as those of \expndtw11 which they were composed. The vessel was equipped \expndtw5 with radar apparatus by which the various elements could \expndtw-2 be detected and located. The bombs would be timed to explode \expndtw4 with as much simultaneity as possible. If all went well, the \expndtw2\i Phosphor \i0 would have fulfilled its mission and traveled most \expndtw1 of the return distance to earth before the explosions occurred.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li24\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 It had been conjectured that the sun's interior was com\-\expndtw3 posed of still-molten magma, covered by a relatively thin crust: a seething flux of matter that manifested itself in vol\-\expndtw2 canic activities. Only one of the volcanoes was visible from \expndtw5 earth to the naked eye; but numerous others had been re\-\expndtw3 vealed to telescopic study. Now, as the \i Phosphor \i0 drew near \expndtw1 to its destination, these others flamed out on the huge, slowly \expndtw12 rotating orb that had darkened a fourth of the ecliptic \expndtw3 and had blotted Libra, Scorpio and Sagittarius wholly from \expndtw-3 view.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 For a long time it had seemed to hang above the voyagers. \expndtw3 Now, suddenly, as if through some prodigious legerdemain, \expndtw5 it lay beneath them: a monstrous, ever-broadening disk of \expndtw0 ebon, eyed with fiery craters, veined and spotted and blotched \expndtw3 with unknown pallid radioactives. It was like the buckler of some macrocosmic giant of the night, who had entrenched \expndtw4 himself in the abyss lying between the worlds.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 The \i Phosphor \i0 plunged toward it like a steel splinter drawn \expndtw2 by some tremendous lodestone.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Each member of the crew had been trained beforehand for \expndtw3 the part he was to play; and everything had been timed with the utmost precision. Sybal and Samac, the engineers of the anti-gravity magnets, began to manipulate the switches that would build up resistance to the solar drag. The generators, bulking to the height of three men, with induction-coils that \expndtw1 suggested some colossal Laocoon, could draw from cosmic \expndtw3 space a negative force capable of counteracting many earth-\expndtw5 gravities. In past ages they had defied easily the pull of \expndtw11 Jupiter; and the ship had even coasted as near to the \expndtw9 blazing sun as its insulation and refrigeration systems \expndtw6 would safely permit. Therefore it seemed reasonable to \expndtw8 expect that the voyagers could accomplish their purpose\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2390\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 of approaching closely to the darkened globe; of circling \expndtw2 it, and pulling away when the disruption-charges had all \expndtw-1 been planted.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li53\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 A dull, subsonic vibration, felt rather than heard, began \expndtw0 to emanate from the magnets. It shook the vessel, ached in \expndtw1 the voyagers' tissues. Intently, with anxiety unbetrayed by their impassive features, they watched the slow, gradual \expndtw-2 building-up of power shown by gauge-dials on which giant \expndtw-1 needles crept like horologic hands, registering the reversed \expndtw-3 gravities one after one, till a drag equivalent to that of fifteen \expndtw1 Earths had been neutralized. The clamp of the solar gravi\-\expndtw-2 tation, drawing them on with projectile-like velocity, crush\-\expndtw2 ing them to their seats with relentless increase of weight, \expndtw0 was loosened. The needles crept on \expndtw71 ...\expndtw0  more slowly now \expndtw-1 ... to sixteen... to seventeen... and stopped. The \i Phosphor's \expndtw1\i0 fall had been retarded but not arrested. And the switches stood at their last notch.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\ri29\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Sybal spoke, in answer to the unuttered questions of his \expndtw-6 companions.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li29\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Something is wrong. Perhaps there has been some un\-\expndtw-1 foreseen deterioration of the coils, in whose composition \expndtw-2 strange and complex alloys were used. Some of the elements \expndtw1 may have been unstable-or have developed instability \expndtw0 through age. Or perhaps there is some interfering unknown \expndtw1 force, born of the sun's decay. At any rate, it is impossible \expndtw-1 to build more power toward the twenty-seven anti-gravities \expndtw0 we will require close to the solar surface."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Samac added: "The decelerative jets will increase our re\-\expndtw1 sistance to nineteen anti-gravities. It will still be far from enough, even at our present distance."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li29\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "How much time have we?" inquired Hilar, turning to the \expndtw0 navigators, Calaf and Caramod.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The two conferred and calculated.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "By using the decelerative jets, it will be two hours before \expndtw0 we reach the sun," announced Calaf finally,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 As if his announcement had been an order, Eibano, the \expndtw2 jet-engineer, promptly jerked the levers that fired to full \expndtw-1 power the reversing rockets banked in the \i Phosphor's \i0 nose \expndtw1 and sides. There was a slight further deceleration of their \expndtw-1 descent, a further lightening of the grievous weight that op\-\expndtw0 pressed them. But the \i Phosphor \i0 still plunged irreversibly \expndtw-2 sunward.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Hilar and Hah Joas exchanged a glance of understanding \expndtw-2 and agreement. They rose stiffly from their seats, and moved\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2400\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 heavily toward the magazine, occupying fully half the ship's interior, in which the hundreds of disruption-bombs were \expndtw1 racked. It was unnecessary to announce their purpose; and \expndtw0 no one spoke either in approval or demur.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\tx2971\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Hilar opened the magazine's door; and he and Han Joas\line\expndtw-2 paused on the threshold, looking back. They saw for the last\line time the faces of their fellow-voyagers; expressing no other\line\expndtw-1 emotion than resignation, vignetted, as it were, on the verge\line\expndtw0 of destruction. Then they entered the magazine, closing its\line\expndtw-2 door behind them.\expndtw0\tab\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 They set to work methodically, moving back to back along a narrow aisle between the racks in which the immense ovoid \expndtw-2 bombs were piled in strict order according to their respective \expndtw1 elements. Because of the various coordinated dials and switches involved, it was a matter of minutes to prepare a \expndtw-4 single bomb for the explosion. Therefore, Hilar and Han Joas, \expndtw1 in the time at their disposal, could do no more than set the \expndtw-2 timing and detonating mechanism of one bomb of each ele\-\expndtw-1 ment. A great chronometer, ticking at the magazine's farther \expndtw1 end, enabled them to accomplish this task with precision. \expndtw-1 The bombs were thus timed to explode simultaneously, det\-\expndtw1 onating the others through chain-reaction, at the moment \expndtw0 when the \i Phosphor \i0 should touch the sun's surface.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The solar pull, strengthening as the \i Phosphor \i0 fell to its \expndtw-2 doom, had now made their movements slow and difficult. It \expndtw-4 would, they feared, immobilize them before they could finish \expndtw-1 preparing a second series of bombs for detonation. Labori\-\expndtw0 ously, beneath the burden of a weight already trebled, they made their way to seats that faced a reflector in which the \expndtw-2 external cosmos was imaged.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li5\ri24\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 It was an awesome and stupendous scene on which they \expndtw1 gazed. The sun's globe had broadened vastly, filling the \expndtw-2 nether heavens. Half-seen, a dim unhorizoned landscape, fit\-fully lit by the crimson far-sundered flares of volcanoes, by \expndtw2 bluish zones and patches of strange radio-active minerals, \expndtw-1 it deepened beneath them abysmally disclosing mountains that would have made the Himalayas seem like' hillocks, re\-\expndtw-2 vealing chasms that might have engulfed asteroids and plan\-\expndtw-3 ets.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri34\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 At the center of this Cyclopean landscape burned the great \expndtw-1 volcano that had been called Hephaestus by astronomers. It \expndtw-2 was the same volcano watched by Hilar and Rodis from the \expndtw1 observatory window. Tongues of flame a hundred miles in\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2395\sl-202\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 length arose and licked skyward from a crater that seemed the mouth of some ultramundane hell.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Hilar and Han Joas no longer heard the chronometer's \expndtw0 portentous ticking, and had no eyes for the watching of its \expndtw-2 ominous hands. Such watching was needless now: there was \expndtw-1 nothing more to be done, and nothing before them but eter\-\expndtw0 nity. They measured their descent by the broadening of the \expndtw-1 dim solar plain, the leaping into salience of new mountains, \expndtw-2 the deepening of new chasms and gulfs in the globe that had \expndtw-1 now lost all semblance of a sphere.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 It was plain now that the \i Phosphor \i0 would fall directly into \expndtw1 the flaming and yawning crater of Hephaestus. Faster and faster it plunged, heavier grew the piled chains of gravity \expndtw3 that giants could not have lifted-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 At the very last, the reflector on which Hilar and Han \expndtw-2 Joas peered was filled entirely by the tongued volcanic.fires \expndtw-1 that enveloped the \i Phosphor,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li29\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Then, without eyes to see or ears to apprehend, they were \expndtw1 part of the pyre from which the sun, like a Phoenix, was \expndtw-3 reborn.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri38\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Rodis, climbing to the tower, after a period of fitful sleep \expndtw-1 and troublous dreams, saw from its window the rising of the \expndtw-2 rekindled orb.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 It dazzled her, though its glory was half-dimmed by rain\-\expndtw-3 bow-colored mists that fumed from the icy mountain-tops. It \expndtw2 was a sight filled with marvel and with portent. Thin rills \expndtw0 of downward threading water had already begun to fret the \expndtw-4 glacial armor on slopes and scarps; and later they would swell \expndtw1 to cataracts, laying bare the buried soil and stone. Vapors, \expndtw-1 that seemed to flow and fluctuate on renascent winds, swam \expndtw0 sunward from lakes of congealed air at the valley's bottom. \expndtw-1 It was a visible resumption of the elemental life and activity \expndtw4 so long suspended in hibernal night. Even through the \expndtw2 tower's insulating walls, Rodis felt the solar warmth that \expndtw0 later would awaken the seeds and spores of plants that had \expndtw-2 lain dormant for cycles.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Her heart was stirred to wonder by the spectacle. But \expndtw-2 beneath the wonder was a great numbness and a sadness like \expndtw-1 unmelting ice. Hilar, she knew, would never return to her- \expndtw0 except as a ray of the light, a spark of the vital heat, that he \expndtw-3 had helped to relumine. For the nonce, there was irony rather \expndtw-4 than comfort in the memory of his promise; "I will come back \expndtw0 to you-in the sunlight."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2395\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li709\ri1430\sl-470\slmult0\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw10\b\fs27 Run from the Fire\b0  \expndtw-26 HARRY   HARRISON\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\sb427\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "You can't go in there!" Heidi shrieked as the office door was \expndtw2 suddenly thrown wide.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Mark Greenberg, deep in the tangled convolutions of a \expndtw5 legal brief, looked up, startled at the interruption. His sec\-\expndtw2 retary came through the doorway, propelled by the two men who held her arms. Mark dropped the thick sheaf of papers, \expndtw4 picked up the phone, and dialed the police.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "I want three minutes of your time," one of the men said, stepping forward. "Your girl would not let us in. It is im\-\expndtw5 portant. I will pay. One hundred dollars a minute. Here is \expndtw3 the money."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 The bank notes were placed on the blotter, and the man \expndtw3 stepped back. Mark finished dialing. The money was real \expndtw2 enough. They released Heidi, who pushed their hands away. \expndtw4 Beyond her was the empty outer office; there were no wit\-nesses to the sudden intruders. The phone rang in his ears; \expndtw3 then a deep voice spoke\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Police Department, Sergeant Vega."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Mark hung up the phone.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Things have been very quiet around here. You have three \expndtw0 minutes. There will also be a hundred-dollar fee for molesting \expndtw4 my secretary."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 If he had meant it as a joke, it was not taken that way. \expndtw2 The man who had paid the money took another bill from the pocket of his dark suit and handed it to a startled Heidi, then \expndtw6 waited in silence until she took it and left. They were a \expndtw7 strange pair, Mark realized. The paymaster was draped in \expndtw4 a rusty black suit, had a black patch over his right eye, and \expndtw-1 wore black gloves as well. A victim of some accident or other, \expndtw2 for his face and neck were scarred, and one ear was missing. \expndtw3 When he turned back, Mark realized that his hair was really\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2390\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li62\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 a badly fitting wig. The remaining eye, lashless and browless, \expndtw0 glared at him redly from its deepset socket, Mark glanced away from the burning stare to look at the other man, who \expndtw-1 seemed commonplace in every way. His akin had a shiny, \expndtw3 waxy look; other than that and his unusual rigidity, he \expndtw-2 seemed normal enough.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li53\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "My name is Arinix, your name is Mark Greenberg," The \expndtw0 scarred man bent over the card in his hand, reading quickly \expndtw-1 in a hoarse, emotionless voice. "You served in the United States Army as a captain in the adjutant general's office and \expndtw0 as a military police officer. Is that correct?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "Yes, but-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The voice ground on, ignoring his interruption. "You were \expndtw2 born in the state of Alabama and grew up in the city of \expndtw-2 Oneida, New York. You speak the language of the Iroquois, \expndtw3 but you are not an Indian. Is that true?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "It's pretty obvious. Is there any point to this questioning?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Yes. I paid for it. How is it that you speak this language?" He peered closely at the card as though looking for an answer \expndtw3 that was not there.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri34\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Simple enough. My father's store was right next to the \expndtw-2 Oneida reservation. Most of his customers were Indians, and I went to school with them. We were the only Jewish family \expndtw-4 in town, and they didn't seem to mind this, the way our Polish \expndtw-1 Catholic neighbors did. So we were friends; in minorities \expndtw1 there is strength, you might say-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "That is enough."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Arinix drew some crumpled bills from his side pocket, \expndtw-1 looked at them, and shoved them back. "Money," he said, \expndtw1 turning to his silent companion. This man had a curious \expndtw-3 lizardlike quality for only his arm moved; the rest of his body \expndtw-1 was still, and his face fixed and-expressionless, as he took a \expndtw-2 thick bundle of bills from his side pocket and handed it over.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Arinix looked at it, top and bottom, then dropped it onto the desk.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "There is ten thousand dollars here. This is a fee for three \expndtw-3 days' work. I wish you to aid me. You will have to speak the \expndtw0 Iroquois language. I can tell you no more."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I'm afraid you will have to, Mr. Arinix. Or don't bother, \expndtw0 it is the same to me. I am involved in a number of cases at the moment, and it would be difficult to take off the time. \expndtw-2 The offer is interesting, but I might lose that much in missed \expndtw0 fees, Since your three minutes are up, I suggest you leave."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2146\li2395\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Money," Arinix said again, receiving more and more bun-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 dies from his assistant, dropping them on Mark's desk. "Fifty \expndtw2 thousand dollars. Good pay for three days. Now, come with \expndtw1 us."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 It was the man's calm arrogance that angered Mark, the \expndtw2 complete lack of emotion, or even interest, in the large sums \expndtw3 he was passing over.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "That's enough. Do you think money can buy everything?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sb10\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2 "Yes."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 The answer was so sudden and humorless that Mark had to smile. "Well, you probably are right. If you keep raising \expndtw3 the ante long enough, I suppose you will eventually reach a \expndtw1 point where you can get anyone to listen. Would you pay me \expndtw5 more than this?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033 "Yes. How much?"\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "You have enough here. Maybe Fm afraid to find out how \expndtw4 high you will go. For a figure like this, I can take off three \expndtw2 days. But you will have to tell me what is going to happen." \expndtw5 Mark was intrigued, as much by the strange pair as by the \expndtw1 money they offered.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "That is impossible. But I can tell you that within two hours you will know what you are to do. At that time you \expndtw3 may refuse, and you will still keep the money. Is it agreed?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 A lawyer who is a bachelor tends to take on more cases \expndtw1 than do his married associates-who like to see their families \expndtw2 once in a while. Mark had a lot of work and a lot of money, far more than he had time to spend. It was the novelty of this \expndtw5 encounter, not the unusual fee, that attracted him. And the \expndtw2 memory of a solid two years of work without a single vaca\-\expndtw3 tion. The combination proved irresistible.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 "Agreed- Heidi," he called out, then handed her the \expndtw3 money when she came into the office. "Deposit this in the number-two special account and then go home. A paid hol\-\expndtw2 iday. I'll see you on Monday."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 She looked down at the thick bundle of bills, then up at \expndtw5 the strangers as they waited while Mark took his overcoat \expndtw2 from the closet. The three of them left together, and the door \expndtw5 closed. That was the last time that she or anyone else ever \expndtw4 saw Mark Greenberg.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri34\sb595\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw7 It was a sunny January day, but an arctic wind that cut \expndtw1 to the bone was blowing up from the direction of the Battery. \expndtw6 As they walked west, it caught them at every cross street,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2362\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 wailing around the building corners. Although they wore \expndtw1 only suit jackets, neither of the strange men seemed to notice \expndtw3 it. Nor were they much on conversation. In cold and silent \expndtw1 discomfort they walked west, a few blocks short of the river, \expndtw5 where they entered an old warehouse building. The street \expndtw2 door was unlocked, but Arinix now secured it behind them \expndtw6 with a heavy bolt, then turned to the inner door at the end \expndtw0 of the hall. It appeared to be made of thick steel plates riveted \expndtw5 together like a ship's hull, and had a lock in each corner. \expndtw3 Arinix took an unusual key from his pocket. It was made of \expndtw5 dull, ridged metal, \i as \i0 thick as his finger and as long as a \expndtw3 pencil. He inserted this in each of the four locks, giving it a \expndtw1 sharp twist each time before removing it. When he was done, \expndtw2 he stepped away, and his companion put his shoulder against \expndtw5 the door and pushed hard. After a moment it slowly gave \expndtw1 way and reluctantly swung open. Arinix waved Mark on, and \expndtw2 he followed them into the room beyond.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 It was completely commonplace. Walls, ceilings, and floor \expndtw4 were painted the same drab tone of brown. Lighting came \expndtw5 from a translucent strip in the ceiling; a metal bench was \expndtw4 fixed to the far wall next to another door.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Wait here," Arinix said, theo went out through the door.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 The other man was a silent, unmoving presence. Mark \expndtw2 looked at the bench, wondering if he should sit down, won\-\expndtw3 dering too if he had been wise to get involved in this, when \expndtw4 the door opened and Arinix returned.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Here is what you must \i do" \i0 he said. "You will go out of \expndtw2 here and will note this address, and then walk about the city. \expndtw6 Return here at the end of an hour."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "No special place to go, nothing to do? Just walk around?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "That is correct."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li10\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 He pulled the heavy outer door open as he spoke, then led \expndtw3 the way through it, down the three steps, and back along the \expndtw4 hall. Mark followed him, then wheeled about and pointed \expndtw0 back.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "These steps! They weren't there when we came in-no steps, I'll swear to it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "One hour, no more, I will hold your topcoat here until \expndtw5 you return."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Warm air rushed in, bright sunlight burned on the stained \expndtw0 sidewalk outside. The wind still blew, though not as strongly, \expndtw3 but now it was as hot as from an oven door. Mark hesitated \expndtw4 on the doorstep, sweat already on his face, taking off the \expndtw2 heavy coat.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2390\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "I don't understand. You must tell me what-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Arinix took the coat, then pushed him suddenly in the \expndtw-3 back. He stumbled forward, gained his balance instantly, and \expndtw2 turned just as the door slammed shut and the bolt ground \expndtw0 into place. He pushed, but it did not move. He knew that \expndtw-3 calling out would be a waste of time. Instead, he turned, eyes \expndtw3 slitted against the glare, and stared out at the suddenly \expndtw-3 changed world.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The street was empty, no cars passed, no pedestrians were on the sidewalk. When he stepped out of the shadowed door\-\expndtw-2 way, the sun smote him like a golden fist. He took his jacket \expndtw2 off and hung it over his arm, and then his necktie, but he \expndtw-1 still ran with sweat. The office buildings stared blank-eyed \expndtw0 from their tiered windows; the gray factories were silent, Mark looked about numbly, trying to understand what had \expndtw-3 happened, trying to make sense of the unbelievable situation. \expndtw-1 Five minutes ago it had been midwinter, with the icy streets \expndtw1 filled with hurrying people. Now it was... what?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li14\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 In the distance the humming, rising drone of an engine \expndtw0 could be heard, getting louder, going along a nearby street. \expndtw2 He hurried to the corner and reached it just in time to see \expndtw0 the car roar across the intersection a block away. It was just \expndtw-1 that, a car, and it had been going too fast for him to see who \expndtw0 was in it. He jumped back at a sudden shrill scream, almost \expndtw1 at his feet, and a large seagull hurled itself into the air and flapped away. It had been tearing at a man's body that lay \expndtw0 crumpled in the gutter. Mark had seen enough corpses in \expndtw-2 Korea to recognize another one, to remember the never-for\-gotten smell of corrupted flesh. How was it possible for the \expndtw0 corpse to remain here so long, days at least? What had hap\-pened to the city?\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 There was a growing knot of unreasoned panic rising \expndtw0 within him, urging him to run, scream, escape. He fought it \expndtw1 down and turned deliberately and started back toward the \expndtw-1 room where Arinix was waiting. He would spend the'rest of \expndtw-2 the hour waiting for that door to open, hoping he would have \expndtw0 the control to prevent himself from beating upon it. Some\-\expndtw-1 thing had happened, to him or the world, he did not know \expndtw-2 which, but he did know that the only hope of salvation from \expndtw0 the incredible events of the morning lay beyond that door. Screaming unreason wanted him to run; he walked slowly, \expndtw3 noticing for the first time that the street he was walking \expndtw0 down ended in the water. The buildings on each side sank \expndtw2 into it as well, and there, at the" foot of the street, was the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2366\sb106\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li58\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 roof of a drowned wharf. All this seemed no more incredible \expndtw2 than anything that had happened before, and he tried to \expndtw-4 ignore it. He fought so hard to close his mind and his thoughts \expndtw2 that he did not hear the rumble of the truck motor or the \expndtw0 squeal of brakes behind him.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "That man! What are you doing here?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li43\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Mark spun about. A dusty, open-bodied truck had stopped at the curb, and a thin blond soldier was swinging down from \expndtw-1 the cab. He wore a khaki uniform without identifying marks \expndtw0 and kept his hand near the large pistol in a polished leather \expndtw1 holster that swung from his belt. The driver was watching \expndtw-1 him, as were three more uniformed men in the back of the \expndtw0 truck, who were pointing heavy rifles in his direction. The \expndtw-2 driver and the soldiers were all black. The blond officer had \expndtw1 drawn his pistol and was pointing it at Mark as well.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li43\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Are you with the westenders? You know what happens \expndtw-1 to them, don't you?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li29\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Sudden loud firing boomed in the street, and thinking he was being shot at, Mark dropped back against the wall. But no shots were aimed, in his direction. Even as they were \expndtw0 turning, the soldiers in the truck dropped, felled by the bul\-\expndtw1 lets. Then the truck itself leaped and burst into flames as a \expndtw-5 grenade exploded. The officer had wheeled about and dropped \expndtw1 to one knee and was firing his pistol at Arinix, who was \expndtw0 sheltered in \i a \i0 doorway across the street, changing clips on \expndtw1 the submachine gun he carried.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri43\sb10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 Running footsteps sounded, and the officer wheeled to face \expndtw-1 Arinix's companion, who was running rapidly toward him, \expndtw-3 empty-handed and cold-faced.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Watch out!" Mark called as the officer fired.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri24\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The bullet caught the running man in the chest, spinning \expndtw0 him about. He tottered but did not fall, then came on again. \expndtw-3 The second shot was to his head, but before the officer could \expndtw-4 fire again, Mark had jumped forward and chopped him across \expndtw0 the wrist with the edge of his hand, so that the gun jumped \expndtw-1 from his fingers.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri48\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\i\fs21 "Varken hand!" \i0 the man cried, and swung his good fist toward Mark.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri43\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Before it could connect, the runner was upon him, hurling him to the ground, kicking him in the head, again and again, \expndtw-1 with a heavy boot. Mark pulled at the attacker's arm, so that \expndtw0 he lost balance and had to stagger back, turning about. The \expndtw3 bullet had caught him full in the forehead, leaving a neat,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2371\sl-202\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 dark hole. There was no blood. He looked stolidly at Mark, \expndtw0 his features expressionless, his skin smooth and shiny.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "We must return quickly," Arinix said as he came up. He \expndtw-3 lowered the muzzle of the machine gun and would have shot \expndtw2 the unconscious officer if Mark hadn't pushed the barrel \expndtw-4 aside.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "You can't kill him, not like that."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\i\fs21 "I \i0 can. He is dead already."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5\fs21 "Explain that." He held firmly to the barrel. 'That and \expndtw0 a lot more."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 They struggled in silence for a second, until they were \expndtw-1 aware of an engine in the distance getting louder and closer. \expndtw4 Arinix turned away from the man on the sidewalk and \expndtw-3 started back down the street. "He called for help on the radio. \expndtw0 We must be gone before they arrive."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Gratefully Mark hurried after the other two, happy to run \expndtw0 now, run to the door to escape this madness.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li1651\sb24\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\sb91\qc\cf1\lang1033 3\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi269\ri10\sb182\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "A drink of water," Arinix said. Mark dropped onto the \expndtw1 metal bench in the brown room and nodded, too exhausted \expndtw-3 to talk. Arinix had a tray with glasses of water, and he passed \expndtw-1 one to Mark, who drained it and took a second one. The air \expndtw-2 was cool here, feeling frigid after the street outside, and with \expndtw-1 the water, he was soon feeling better. More relaxed, at ease, almost ready to fall asleep. As his chin touched his chest, he \expndtw1 jerked awake and jumped to his feet.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "You drugged the water," he said.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri19\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Not a strong drug. Just something to relax you, to remove \expndtw-2 the tension. You will be better in a moment. You have been \expndtw1 through an ordeal."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "I have... and you are going to explain it!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "In a moment."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\fs21 "No, now!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri29\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Mark wanted to jump to his feet, to take this strange man by the -throat, to shake the truth from him. But he did noth\-ing. The desire was there, but only in an abstract way. It did \expndtw-3 not seem important enough to pursue such an energetic chain \expndtw0 of events. For the first time he noticed that Arinix had lost \expndtw-1 his hairpiece during the recent engagement. He was as hair\-\expndtw0 less as an egg, and the same scars that crisscrossed his face \expndtw4 also extended over his bare skull. Even this did not seem\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2366\sl-206\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 important enough to comment upon. Awareness struck \expndtw1 through,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Your drug seems to be working."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "The effect is almost instantaneous."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Where are we?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "In New York City."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Yes, I know, but so changed. The water in the streets, those soldiers, and the heat. It can't be January-have we traveled in time?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li38\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "No, it is still January, the same day, month, year it has \expndtw1 always been. That cannot be changed, that is immutable."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "But something \i isn't; \i0 something has changed. What is it?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "You have a very quick mind, you make correct conclu\-sions. You must therefore free this quick mind of all theories \expndtw-1 of the nature of reality and of existence. There is no heaven, \expndtw1 there is no hell, the past is gone forever, the unstoppable \expndtw-1 future sweeps toward us endlessly. We are fixed forever in \expndtw1 the now, the inescapable present of our world line-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "What is a world line?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li14\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "See... the drug relaxes, but your brain is still lawyer-\expndtw0 sharp. You live in a particular present because of what hap\-\expndtw-2 pened in the past. Columbus discovered America, the armies \expndtw12 of the North won the Civil War, Einstein stated that \expndtw-11 E = MC\super 2\nosupersub "\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He stopped abruptly, and Mark waited for him to go on, but he did not. Why? Because he was waiting for Mark to finish for him. Mark nodded.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "What you are waiting for is for me to ask if there is a \expndtw-2 world line where Columbus died in infancy, where the South \expndtw1 won, and so forth. Is that what you mean?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I do. Now, carry the analogy forward."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "If two or three world lines exist, why, more, any number, \expndtw-1 an infinity of world lines can exist. Infinitely different, eter\-nally separate." Then he was on his feet, shaking despite the \expndtw2 drug. "But they are not separate. We are in a different one \expndtw0 right now. There is a different world line beyond that door, down those steps-because the ground here is at a different \expndtw3 height. Is that true?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "Yes."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "But why, how... I mean, what is going on out there, what \expndtw2 terrible thing is happening?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "The sun is in the early stages of a change. It is getting warmer, giving out more radiation, and the polar ice caps \expndtw-1 are beginning to melt. The sea level has risen, drowning the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2366\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 lowest parts of the city This is midwinter, and you saw how \expndtw5 warm it is out there. You can imagine what the tropics are \expndtw3 like. There has been a breakdown in government as people \expndtw4 fled the drowning shorelines. Others have taken advantage \expndtw2 of it. The Union of South Africa has capitalized on the de\-\expndtw4 teriorating conditions, and using mercenary troops, has in\-vaded the North American continent. They met little resis\-\expndtw3 tance."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "I don't understand-or rather, I do understand what is \expndtw3 happening out there, and I believe you, because I saw it for myself. But what can I do about it? Why did you bring me \expndtw1 here?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "You can do nothing about it. I brought you here because we have discovered by experience that the quickest way that someone can be convinced of the multiplicity of worldliness \expndtw4 is by bringing them physically to a different world line."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 "It is also the best--and quickest-way to discover if they \expndtw4 can accept this fact and not break down before this new \expndtw3 awareness."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "You have divined the truth. We are, unfortunately, short of time, so wish to determine as soon as possible if recruits \expndtw4 will be able to work with us."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033 "Who is \i we?"\cf0\lang2057\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "In a moment I will tell you. First, do you accept the idea \expndtw3 of the multiplicity of world lines?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 "I'm afraid I must. Outside is an inescapable fact. That \expndtw1 is not a stage constructed to confuse me. Those dead men are \expndtw4 dead forever. How many world lines are there?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "An infinite number; it is impossible to know. Some differ \expndtw5 greatly, some so slightly that it is impossible to mark the \expndtw4 difference. Imagine them, if you will, as close together as \expndtw5 cards in a pack. If two-dimensional creatures, cluba and hearts, lived on each card, they would be unaware of the other cards and just as unable to reach them. Continue the \expndtw3 analogy, drive a nail through all of the cards. Now the other cards can be reached. My people, the 'we' you asked about, are the ones who can do that. We have reached many world lines. Some we cannot reach-some we dare not reach."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3 "Why?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "You ask why-after what you saw out there?" For the \expndtw0 first time since they had met, Arinix lost his cold detachment. \expndtw3 His single eye blazed with fury, and his fists were clenched \expndtw1 as he paced the floor. "You saw the filthy things that happen, \expndtw3 the death that comes before the absolute death. You see me,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2362\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 and I am typical of my people, maimed, killed, and scarred \expndtw-3 by a swollen sun that produces more and more hard radiation \expndtw-1 every year. We escaped our world line, seeking salvation in \expndtw0 other world lines, only to discover the awful and ultimate \expndtw1 secret. The rot is beginning, going faster and faster all the \expndtw-1 time. You saw what the world is like beyond that door. Do \expndtw2 you understand what I am saying, do the words make any \expndtw-2 sense to you?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "The sun is going nova. It is the end."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\sb149\qc\cf1\lang1033\fs22 4\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\ri14\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Water," Arinix called out hoarsely, slumping onto the \expndtw-6 metal bench, his single eye closed now. The inner door opened, \expndtw0 and his companion appeared with a pitcher and refilled the \expndtw-5 glasses. He moved as smoothly as before and seemed ignorant \expndtw-1 of the black hole in his forehead.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li29\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "He is a Sixim," Arinix said, seeing the direction of Mark's \expndtw3 gaze. He drank the water so greedily that it ran down his \expndtw-1 chin. "They are our helpers; we could not do without them. Not our invention. We borrow what we need. They are ma\-\expndtw0 chines, fabrications of plastic and metal, though there is ar\-\expndtw-3 tificial flesh of some kind involved in their construction. I do \expndtw1 not know the details. Their controlling apparatus is some\-where in the armored chest cavity; they are quite invulner\-\expndtw-1 able."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Mark had to ask the question.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "The sun is going nova, you said. Everywhere, in every time line-in \i my \i0 time line?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Arinix shook his head a weary no. "Not in \i every \i0 line; that \expndtw-3 is our only salvation. But in too many of them-and the pace \expndtw-4 is accelerating steadily. Your line-no, not as far as we know. \expndtw-3 The solar spectrum does not show the characteristic changes. Your line has enough problems as it is, and is one we use for \expndtw-2 much-needed supplies. There are few of us, always too few, \expndtw-1 and so much to be done. We must save whom we can and \expndtw1 what we can, do it without telling why or how we operate. \expndtw-1 It is a great work that does not end, and is a most tiring one. \expndtw3 But my people are driven, driven insane with hatred, at \expndtw-3 times, of that bloated, evil thing in the sky. We have survived \expndtw1 for centuries in spite of it, maimed and mutated by the ra\-\expndtw-1 diation it pours out. It was due to a successful mutation that \expndtw-4 we escaped even as we have, a man of genius who discovered \expndtw0 the door between the world lines. But the unsuccessful out-\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2362\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 number a million to one the successful in mutations, and I \expndtw-1 will not attempt to describe the suffering in my world. You may think me maimed, but I am one of the lucky ones. We \expndtw0 have escaped our world line but found the enemy waiting \expndtw-3 everywhere. We have tried to fight back. We started less than \expndtw1 two hundred years ago, and our enemy started millions of \expndtw2 years before us. From it we have learned to be ruthless in \expndtw0 the war, and we will go on fighting it until we have done \expndtw-1 everything possible."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You want me to do something in that world outside the \expndtw-8 door?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "No, not there; they are dead. The destruction is too ad\-\expndtw-2 vanced. We can only watch. Closer to the end, we will save \expndtw-3 what art we can. Things have been noted. We know a culture \expndtw-1 by its art, don't we? We know a world that way as well. So many gone without record, so much to do."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He drank greedily at the water, slobbering. Perhaps he \expndtw2 was mad, Mark thought, partly mad, at least. Hating the \expndtw-3 sun,trying to fight it, fighting an endlessly losing battle. But... wasn't it worth it? If lives, people, could be saved, wasn't that worth any price, any sacrifice? In his world line, men worked \expndtw-2 to save endangered species. Arinix and his people worked to save another species-their own.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "What can I do to help?" Mark asked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "You must find out what happened to our field agent in \expndtw-3 one of our biggest operations. He is from your world line, the \expndtw-2 one we call Einstein because it is one of the very few where \expndtw-6 atomic energy has been released. He is now on Iroquois, which \expndtw-2 will begin going nova within the century. It is a strange line, \expndtw-1 with little technology and retarded by monolithic religions. Europe still lives in the dark ages. The Indians rule in North America, and the Six Nations are the most powerful of all. They are a brave and resourceful people, and we had hoped to use them to settle a desert world-we know of many of \expndtw-2 those. Imagine, if you can, the Earth where life never began, where the seas are empty, the land a desert of sand and rock. \expndtw-3 We have seeded many of them, and that is wonder to behold, \expndtw-2 with animal and plant life. Simple enough to introduce seeds \expndtw0 of all kinds, and later, when they have been established, to \expndtw2 transfer animals there. Mankind is not as easy to transfer. \expndtw-3 We had great hopes with the Iroquois, but our agent has been \expndtw-2 reported missing. I have taken time from my own projects to \expndtw-1 correct the matter. We used War Department records to find \expndtw-5 you."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2366\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Who was your agent?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li53\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "A man named Joseph Wing, a Mohawk, a steel worker \expndtw1 here in the city in your own line."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li53\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "There has always been bad feeling between the Mohawk \expndtw1 and other tribes of the nations."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li38\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "We know nothing about that, I will try to find his reports,, \expndtw0 if any, if that will be of any assistance. The important thing \expndtw-4 is-will you help us? If you wish more money, you can have \expndtw-2 all you need. We have an endless supply. There is little geo\-\expndtw-3 logic difference between many worlds. So we simply record \expndtw0 where important minerals are on one world, things such as \expndtw2 diamonds and gold, and see that it is mined on another. It \expndtw-1 is very easy."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri24\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Mark was beginning to have some idea of the immensity \expndtw-4 of the operation these people were engaged in. "Yes, I'll help, I\expndtw-2 'll do what I can."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri24\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Good. We leave at once. Stay where you are. We go now \expndtw1 to a world line that is called Home by some, Hatred by \expndtw0 others."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "Your own?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Yes. You will perhaps understand a bit more what drives \expndtw-2 us. All of our geographical transportation is done on Hatred, for all of the original transit stations were set up there. Also, \expndtw0 that is all it is really good for." He spat the words from his \expndtw1 mouth as though they tasted bad.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri38\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Again there was no sensation, no awareness of change, \expndtw0 Arinix left the room, returned a few seconds later.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri38\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "You wouldn't like to show me how you did that?" Mark asked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\ri29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "I would not. It is forbidden, unthinkable. It would be \expndtw0 death for you to go through that door. The means of transit \expndtw-1 between the world lines is one we must keep secret from all other than ourselves. We may be partially or completely in\-\expndtw4 sane, but our hatred is of that thing that hangs in the sky \expndtw-2 above us. We favor no group, no race, no people, no species \expndtw-4 above the others. But think what would happen if one of your \expndtw-2 nationalistic or religious groups gained control of the means \expndtw0 to move between world lines, think of the destruction that \expndtw-4 might follow."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I grasp your meaning but do not agree completely."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri62\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I do not ask you to. All else is open to you; we have no \expndtw-2 secrets. Only that room is forbidden. Come."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2126\li2357\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 He opened the outer door, and Mark followed him through. \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 They were inside a cavernous building of some kind. Harsh \expndtw4 lights high above sent long shadows from great stacks of containers and boxes. They stepped aside as a rolling plat\-form approached laden with shining cylinders. It was driven by a Sixim, who was identical, other than the hole in the \expndtw2 forehead, to the one with them. The door they had just closed \expndtw-2  behind them opened, and two more Sixim came out and began \expndtw5 to carry the cylinders back into the room.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li86\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "This way," Arinix said, and led the way through the high \expndtw0 stacks to a room where bales of clothing lay heaped on tables. \expndtw5 "Go on to repair," he ordered the damaged Sixim that still \expndtw4 followed them, then pointed at the gray clothing.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li326\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "These are radiation-resistant. We will change."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li77\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 As bereft of shame as of any other emotion, Arinix stripped \expndtw0 off his clothing and pulled on one of the coverall-type outfits. \expndtw4 Mark did the same. It was soft but thick and sealed up high on the neck with what appeared to be a magnetic closure. \expndtw5 There were heavy boots in an assortment of sizes, and he \expndtw4 soon found a pair that fitted. While he did this, Arinix was making a call on a very ordinary-looking phone that was \expndtw0 prominently stamped "Western Electric"-they would be sur\-\expndtw3 prised if they knew where their apparatus was being used- \expndtw6 speaking a language rich in guttural sounds. They left the \expndtw4 room by a different exit, into a wide corridor, where trans\-\expndtw5 portation was waiting for them. It was a vehicle the size of a large truck, a teardrop shape riding on six large, heavily tired wheels. It was made of metal the same color as their \expndtw2 clothing, and appeared to have no windows. However, when \expndtw5 they went inside, Mark saw that the solid nose was either \expndtw2 transparent or composed of a large viewsereen of some kind. \expndtw0 A single driver's seat faced the controls, and a curved, padded \expndtw4 bench was fixed to the other three walls. They sat down, \expndtw5 Arinix at the controls, and the machine started. There was \expndtw3 no vibration or sound of any exhaust; it just surged forward \expndtw5 silently at his touch.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li317\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Electric power?" Mark asked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "I have no idea. The cars run when needed."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li67\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Mark admired his singleness of purpose but did not envy \expndtw1 him. There was only one thing in the man's life-to run from the solar fire and save what possibly could be saved from the \expndtw4 flame. Were all of his'people like this?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2424\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Strong headlights glared on as they left the corridor and \expndtw-1 entered what appeared to be a tunnel mouth. The walls were \expndtw-3 rough and unfinished; only the roadway beneath was smooth, \expndtw1 dropping away at a steep angle,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Where are we going?" Mark asked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li53\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "Under the river, so we can drive on the surface. The \expndtw0 island above us-what is the name Einstein-?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "Manhattan."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Yes, Manhattan. It is covered by the sea now, which rises \expndtw1 almost to the top of the cliffs across the river from it The \expndtw0 polar caps melted many years ago here. Life is very harsh, \expndtw-2 you will see."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The tunnel ahead curved to the right and began to rise \expndtw-1 sharply. Arinix slowed the vehicle and stopped when a bril\-\expndtw-3 liant disk of light became visible ahead. He worked a control, \expndtw0 and the scene darkened as though a filter had been slipped \expndtw-3 into place. Then, with the headlights switched off, he moved \expndtw1 forward until the light could be seen as the glaring tunnel \expndtw-1 mouth, growing larger and brighter, until they were through \expndtw0 it and back on the surface once more.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li14\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Mark could not look at the sun, or even in its direction, \expndtw2 despite the protective filter. It burned like the open mouth \expndtw0 of a celestial furnace, spewing out light and heat and radia\-tion onto the world below. Here the plants grew, the only \expndtw1 living creatures that could bear the torrent of fire from the \expndtw-4 sky, that welcomed it. Green on all sides, a jungle of growing, \expndtw-1 thriving, rising, reaching plants and trees, burgeoning under \expndtw-3 the caress of the exploding star. The road was the only visible \expndtw0 manmade artifact, cutting a wide, straight slash through the \expndtw-1 wilderness of plant life, straining life that leaned over, grew \expndtw2 to its very edge, and sent tendrils and runners across its \expndtw-1 barren surface. Arinix threw more switches, then rose from \expndtw1 the driver's seat.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "It is on automatic control now. We may rest."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He grabbed for support as the car slowed suddenly; ahead, \expndtw0 a great tree had crashed across the road, almost blocking it completely. There was a rattle of machinery from the front \expndtw3 of the car, and a glow sprang out that rivaled the glare of \expndtw0 the sun above. Then they moved again, slowly, and greasy \expndtw-2 smoke billowed up and was blown away.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 'The machine will follow the road and clear it when it \expndtw-2 must," Arinix said. "A device, a heat generator of some sort, \expndtw1 will burn away obstructions. I am told it is a variant of the \expndtw3 machine that melted the soil and rock to form this road, a\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2362\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 principle discovered while observing the repulsive sun that has caused this all, making heat in the same manner the sun \expndtw2 makes heat. We will turn its own strengths back upon it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 He went to the seat in the rear, stretched out on it with \expndtw-3 his face to the cushions, and appeared to fall instantly asleep, \expndtw-1 Mark sat in the driver's chair, careful to touch nothing, both \expndtw-2 fascinated and repelled by the world outside. The car contin\-\expndtw0 ued unerringly down the center of the road at a high speed, \expndtw-1 slowing only when it had to burn away obstructions. It must \expndtw0 have utilized radar or other sensing devices, for a_ sudden heavy rainstorm did not reduce its speed in the slightest. \expndtw-1 Visibility was only a few feet in the intense tropical down\-\expndtw-2 pour, yet the car moved on, speed unabated. It did slow, but \expndtw-1 only to burn away obstructions, and smoke and steam ob\-\expndtw0 scured all vision. Then the storm stopped, as quickly as it \expndtw-1 began. Mark watched until he began to yawn, so then, like \expndtw2 Arinix, he tried to rest. At first he thought he could not \expndtw-1 possibly sleep, then realized he had. Darkness had fallen \expndtw1 outside, and the car still hurried silently through the night.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 It was just before dawn when they reached their desti\-nation.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The building was as big as a fortress, which it resembled \expndtw1 in more ways than one. Its walls- were high and dark, fea\-tureless, streaked with rain. Harsh lights on all sides lit the \expndtw-1 ground, which was nothing more than sodden ash. Appar\-\expndtw-3 ently all plant life was burned before it could reach the build\-\expndtw0 ing and undermine it. The road led directly to a high door \expndtw1 that slid open automatically as they approached. Arinix \expndtw-3 stopped the vehicle a few hundred yards short of the entrance \expndtw-1 and rose from the controls.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Come with me. This machine will enter by itself, but we \expndtw-1 shall walk. There is no solar radiation now, so you may, see \expndtw1 my world and know what is in store for all the others."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 They stepped out into the damp airlessness of the night. \expndtw-1 The car pulled away from them, and they were alone. Ri\-\expndtw0 vulets of wet ash streaked the road, disappearing in runnels \expndtw-1 at either side where the waiting plant life leaned close. The \expndtw0 air was hot, muggy, hard to breathe, seemingly giving no \expndtw1 substance to the lungs. Mark gasped and breathed deeply \expndtw0 over and over again,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Remember," Arinix said, turning away and starting for \expndtw-3 the entrance, "this is night, midwinter, before dawn, the cool\-\expndtw0 est it will ever be here. Do not come in the summer."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2112\li2362\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Mark went after him, aware that he was already soaked \cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 with sweat, feeling the strength of the enemy in the sky \expndtw0 above, which was already touching fire to the eastern horizon. \expndtw3 Though he panted with the effort, he ran and staggered into \expndtw6 the building and watched as the door ground shut behind \expndtw-1 him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Your work now begins;" Arinix said, leading the way into \expndtw3 a now familiar brown room. Mark got his breath back and \expndtw1 wiped his streaming face while they made their swift journey \expndtw4 to the world line named Iroquois,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "I will leave you here and will return in twenty-four hours-\expndtw7 for your report on the situation. We will then decide what \expndtw3 must \i he \i0 -done." Arinix opened the outer door and pointed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Just a minute-I don't know anything that is happening here. You will have to brief me."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "I know nothing of this operation, other than what I have \expndtw2 told you. The Sixim there should have complete records and \expndtw1 will tell you what you need to know. Now, leave. I have my own work to do."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 There was no point in arguing, Arinix gestured again im\-\expndtw5 patiently, and Mark went through the door, which closed \expndtw2 with a ponderous thud behind him. He was in darkness, cold \expndtw6 darkness, and he shivered uncontrollably after the heat of \expndtw5 the world he had just left.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Sixim, are you there? Can you turn on some lights?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri96\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 There was the sudden flare of a match in answer, and in \expndtw2 its light he could see an Indian lighting an ordinary kerosene \expndtw3 lamp. He wore thong-wrapped fur leggings and a fringed deerskin jacket. Though his skin was dark, his features were Indo-European; once the lamp was lit, he stood by it, un-\expndtw-1 moving,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "You are the Sixim," Mark said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "I am."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "What are you doing here?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Awaiting instructions."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri106\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 These creatures were as literal-minded as computers- \expndtw3 which is probably what their brains were. Mark realized he \expndtw1 had to be more specific with his questions, but his teeth were \expndtw2 chattering with cold, and he was shivering hard, which made \expndtw5 it difficult to think.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "How long have you-been waiting?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Twelve days, fourteen hours, and-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri115\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 "That's precise enough. You have just been sitting here \expndtw7 in the dark without heat all that time! Do you have a way \expndtw4 of heating this place?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2366\sb106\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2 "Yes."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Then do it, and quickly... and let me have something to wrap around me before I freeze."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 The buffalo-skin robe made a big difference, and while the \expndtw1 Sixim lit a fire in a large stone fireplace, Mark looked around \expndtw3 at the large room. The walls were of logs, with the bark still \expndtw2 on, and the floor bare wide boards. Crates were piled at one \expndtw0 end of the room, and a small mound of skins was at the other. \expndtw6 Around the fire, it was more domestic, with a table and \expndtw4 chairs, cooking pots, and cabinets. Mark pulled a wooden \expndtw3 chair close and raised his hands to the crackling blaze. Once \expndtw2 the fire was started, the Sixim waited stolidly again for more \expndtw0 orders.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 By patient questioning Mark extracted all that the ma\-\expndtw5 chine man seemed to know about the situation. The agent, \expndtw7 Joseph Wing, had been staying here and going out to talk \expndtw3 to the Oneida. The work he did was unknown to the, Sixim." \expndtw6 Wing had gone out and not returned. At the end of forty-\expndtw4 eight hours, as instructed, the Sixim had reported him miss\-\expndtw3 ing. How he had reported, he would not say; obviously there \expndtw4 were questions it would not answer.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi269\li5\ri91\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "You've been a help-but not very much," Mark said, "I'll \expndtw5 just have to find out for myself what is going on out there. \expndtw3 Did Joseph Wing leave any kind of papers, a diary, notes?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3 "No."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Thanks. Are there any weapons here?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "In that box Do you wish me to unlock it?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 "I do."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri106\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 The weapons consisted of about twenty well-worn, ob\-\expndtw4 viously surplus M-1 rifles, along with some boxes of am\-\expndtw1 munition. Mark tried the bolt on one-it worked smoothly- \expndtw6 then put the rifle back in the box.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Lock it up. I'm not looking for trouble, and if I find it, a \expndtw4 single gun won't make that much difference. But a peace \expndtw3 offering might be in order, particularly food in the middle of \expndtw5 winter."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri110\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 He carried the lantern over to the boxes and quickly found exactly what he needed. A case of large smoked hams. Pick\-\expndtw2 ing one out, he held the label to the light, "Smithfield Ham," \expndtw-1 it read, "packed in New Chicago, weight 6.78 kilos." Not from \expndtw2 his world line, obviously, but that didn't matter in the slight\-\expndtw3 est.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri125\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 And he would need warmer clothes, clothes that would be \expndtw6 more acceptable here than gray coveralls. There were leg-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2362\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi96\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 gings and jackets-obviously used, from their smell-that \expndtw-3 would do nicely. He changed quickly in front of the fire, then, \expndtw-1 knowing it would be harder the longer he waited, tucked the \expndtw0 ham under his arm and went to the door and pulled back on \expndtw-1 the large wooden bolt.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li331\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Lock this behind me, and unlock it only for me."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "Yes."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li67\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The door opened onto an unmarked field of snow with a \expndtw-3 stand of green pines and taller bare-limbed oak trees beyond. \expndtw0 Above, in the blue arch of the sky, a small and reasonable \expndtw2 winter sun shed more light than heat. There was a path \expndtw0 through the trees, and beyond them a thin trickle of smoke \expndtw-1 was dark against the sky. Mark went in that direction. When \expndtw-4 he reached the edge of the grove, a tall Indian stepped silently \expndtw-3 from behind a tree and blocked the path before him. He made \expndtw-2 no threatening moves, but the stone-headed club hung easily \expndtw-1 and ready from his hand. Mark stopped and looked at him, saying nothing, hoping he could remember Iroquois after all \expndtw2 these years. It was the Indian who broke the silence and \expndtw-1 spoke first,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li307\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I am called Great Hawk."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li53\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "I am called... Little-one-talks." He hadn't spoken that \expndtw2 name in years; it was what the old men on the reservation \expndtw1 called him when he first spoke their own language. Great \expndtw-1 Hawk seemed to be easier when he heard the words, for his club sank lower.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I come in peace," Mark said, and held out the ham.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li48\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Welcome in peace," Great Hawk said, tucking the club into his waist and taking the ham. He sniffed at it apprecia\-\expndtw-2 tively.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "Have you seen the one named Joseph Wing?" Mark asked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li48\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The ham dropped, half-burying itself silently in the snow; \expndtw1 the club was clutched at the ready.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Are you a friend of his?" Great Hawk asked.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I have never met him. But I was told I would see him here."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Great Hawk considered this in silence for a long time, \expndtw-1 looked up as a blue jay flapped by overhead, calling out \expndtw2 hoarsely, then examined with apparent great attention the \expndtw-1 tracks of a rabbit in the snow-through all of this not taking \expndtw-4 his eyes from Mark for more than a second,. Finally he spoke.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Joseph Wing came here during the hunter's moon, before \expndtw-1 the first snow fell. Many said-he had much orenda, for there \expndtw1 were strange lights and sounds here during a night, and no\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2386\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 one would leave the long house, and in the morning his long \expndtw4 house stands as you see it now. There is great orenda here. Then he came and spoke to us and told us many things. He \expndtw5 said he would show the warriors a place where there was \expndtw3 good hunting. Hunting is bad here, for the people of the Six \expndtw4 Nations are many, and some go hungry. He said all these things, and what he showed us made us believe him. Some \expndtw2 of us said we would go with him, even though some thought \expndtw4 they would never return. Some said that he was Tehoron-hiawakhon, and he did not say it was not the truth. He said \expndtw3 to my sister, Deer-runs, that he was indeed Tehoronhiawak-\expndtw1 hon. He told her to come with him to his long house. She did \expndtw3 not want to go with him. By force he took her to his long \expndtw1 house."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li14\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Great Hawk stopped talking abruptly and looked atten\-\expndtw3 tively at Mark through half-closed eyes-. He did not finish, but the meaning was clear enough. The Oneida would have \expndtw0 thought Joseph Wing possessed of much orenda after his sud\-\expndtw3 den appearance, the principle of magic power that was in\-\expndtw2 herent in every body or thing. Some had it more than others. A man who could build a building in a night must have great orenda. So much so that some would consider him to be Te-\expndtw3 horonhiawakhon, the hero who watched over them, born of \expndtw1 the gods, who lived as a man and who might return as a man. \expndtw2 But no hero would take a maiden by force; the Indians were \expndtw0 very practical on this point. Anyone who would do that would \expndtw3 be killed by the girl's family; that was obvious. Her brother \expndtw4 waited for Mark's answer.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri29\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "One who does that must die," Mark said. Defending the \expndtw2 undoubtedly dead Joseph Wing would accomplish nothing; \expndtw5 Mark was learning pragmatism from Arinix.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "He died. Come to the long house."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Great Hawk picked up the ham, turned his back, and led \expndtw4 the way through the deep snow.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri19\sb173\qc\cf1\lang1033\fs23 6\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sb197\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 The Oneida warriors sat cross-legged around the fire while \expndtw5 the women served them the thin gruel. Hunting must have \expndtw3 been bad if this was all they had, for it was more water than \expndtw5 anything else, with some pounded acorns and a few scraps \expndtw3 of venison. After eating, they smoked, a rank leaf of some \expndtw4 kind that was certainly not tobacco. Not until the ceremony\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2366\sl-206\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li58\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 was out of the way did they finally touch the topic that con\-\expndtw1 cerned them all.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li48\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "We have eaten elk," Great Hawk said, puffing at the pipe \expndtw-4 until his eyes grew red, "This is an elkskin robe I am wearing. \expndtw2 They are large, and there is much meat upon them." He \expndtw-1 passed the pipe to Mark, then reached behind him under a tumbled hide and drew forth a bone, "This is the bone of the \expndtw-2 leg of an elk, brought to us by someone. We would eat well \expndtw3 in winter with elk such as this to hunt."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Mark took it and looked at it as closely as he could in the \expndtw3 dim light. It was a bone like any other, as far as he could \expndtw-1 tell, distinguished only by its great length-at least five feet \expndtw0 from end to end. Comparing it with the length of his own \expndtw-3 femur, he could see that it came from a massive beast. Surely \expndtw2 an elk or a cow would be smaller than this. What had this \expndtw-1 to do with the dead Joseph Wing? He must have brought it. \expndtw0 But why, and where did he get it? If only there were some \expndtw1 record of what he was supposed to be doing. Hunting, of \expndtw-3 course-that had to be it; food for these people who appeared \expndtw2 too many for the limited hunting grounds. He held up the \expndtw-3 bone and spoke.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Was it told to you that you would be able to hunt elk like \expndtw-1 this?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 There were nods and grunts in answer.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "What was told you?" After a silence, Great Hawk an\-\expndtw-5 swered.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Someone said that a hunting party could go to this land \expndtw-1 that was close by but far away. If hunting was good, a long \expndtw-2 house would be built for the others to follow. That was what \expndtw-1 was said."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 It was simple enough. A hunting party taken to one of the seeded desert worlds, now stocked with game. If the trip was \expndtw-1 successful, the rest of the tribe would follow.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "I can also take you hunting in that land," Mark said,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "When will this be?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Come to me in the morning, and I will tell you,"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He left before they could ask any more questions. The sun \expndtw-2 was low on the horizon, sending long purple shadows across \expndtw0 the white snow. Backtracking was easy, and the solid log \expndtw-5 walls of the building a welcome sight. When he was identified, \expndtw-2 the Sixim let him in. The fire was built even higher now, \expndtw-1 the large room was almost warmed up. Mark sat by the fire \expndtw1 and stretched his hands to it gratefully; the Sixim was sta\-tuesque in the shadows,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2362\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Joseph Wing was to take the Indians to another world \expndtw-1 line. Did you know that?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "Yes."     \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Why didn't you tell me?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "You did not ask."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "I would appreciate it if you would volunteer more infor\-\expndtw2 mation in the future."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Which information do you wish me to volunteer?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The Sixim took a lot of getting used to. Mark took the \expndtw0 lantern and rummaged through the variety of goods in the \expndtw-1 boxes and on the loaded shelves. There were ranked bottles \expndtw0 of unfamiliar shape and labeling that contained some thing \expndtw-2 called \i Kunbula Atashan \i0 from someplace that appeared to be \expndtw-3 named Carthagio-it was hard to read the letters, so he could \expndtw-4 not be sure, but when he opened one of them, it had a definite odor of strong alcoholic beverage. The flavor was unusual but \expndtw-2 fortifying, and he poured a mugful before he returned to the \expndtw-5 fire.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Do you know whom I must contact to make arrangements \expndtw1 for the transfer to the other world line?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\fs21 "Yes."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-11\fs21 "Who?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-8\fs21 "Me."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 It was just that simple. The Sixim would give no details \expndtw-3 of the operation, but he would operate the mechanism to take \expndtw1 them to the correct world and return.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "In the morning, first thing, we'll go have a look."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 They left soon after dawn. Mark took one of the rifles and \expndtw-2 some extra clips of ammunition; that had been a big elk, and \expndtw-1 he might be lucky enough to bag another. Once more the \expndtw0 sensationless transfer was made and the heavy outer door \expndtw-1 pushed open. For the first time there was no other room or \expndtw-2 hallway beyond it, just a field of yellowed grass. Mark was astonished.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "But\expndtw12 ...\expndtw-2  is it winter? Where is the snow?" Because it was \expndtw1 phrased as a question, the Sixim answered him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "It is winter. But here in Sandstone the climate is warmer, \expndtw-1 due to the ocean-current differences."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Holding the rifle ready, Mark stepped through the door, \expndtw-2 which the Sixim closed behind him. Without being ordered, \expndtw1 the Sixim locked the door with the long key. For the first \expndtw0 time Mark saw the means of world-line transportation not \expndtw-1 concealed by an outer building. It was a large box, nothing \expndtw-2 more, constructed of riveted and rusty steel plates. Whatever\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2362\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 apparatus powered it was inside, for it was completely fea\-tureless. He turned from it to look at the world named Sand\-\expndtw-4 stone.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi269\li29\ri5\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The tall grass was everywhere; it must have been seeded \expndtw1 first to stabilize the soil. It had done this, but it would take \expndtw-1 centuries to soften the bare rock contours of what had once \expndtw-3 been a worldwide desert. Harsh-edged crags pushed up in the distance where there should have been rounded hills; mounds \expndtw-2 of tumbled morain rose above the grass. Groves and patches \expndtw-3 of woods lay scattered about, while on one side a thick forest \expndtw0 began and stretched away to the horizon. All of this had a \expndtw-1 very constructed air to it-and it obviously was. Mark rec\-\expndtw0 ognized some of the trees; others were strange to him. This planet had been seeded in a hurry, and undoubtedly with a \expndtw-2 great variety of vegetation. As unusual as it looked now, this \expndtw-3 made ecological good sense, since complex ecological rela\-\expndtw-1 tionships increased the chance the ecosystem had of surviv\-\expndtw-5 ing. There would certainly be a variety of animal life as well- \expndtw2 the large elk the Oneida knew about, and surely others as \expndtw-1 well. When he moved around the rusty building, he saw just \expndtw-5 what some of that life might be-and stopped still on the spot. \expndtw1 No more than a few hundred yards away, there was a herd \expndtw2 of elephants tearing at the leaves on the low trees. Large \expndtw1 elephants with elegant swept-back tusks, thickly covered \expndtw2 with hair.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Hairy mammoth!" he said aloud, just as the nearest bull \expndtw-1 saw him appear and raised his trunk and screamed warning.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "That is correct," the Sixim said.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Get your key, and let's get out of here," Mark said, back\-\expndtw0 ing quickly around the corner. "I don't think a thirty-caliber \expndtw3 will make a dent in that thing."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li14\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 With unhurried, steady motions the Sixim unlocked the \expndtw-1 door, one lock after another, while the thunder of pounding \expndtw-3 feet grew louder and closer. Then they were through the door \expndtw2 and pushing it shut.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "I think the Oneida will enjoy the hunting," Mark said, grinning wryly, leaning against the thick wall with relief, \expndtw0 "Let's go back and get them."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 When he opened the outer wooden door in Iroquois, he saw \expndtw2 Great Hawk and five other warriors standing patiently in \expndtw-2 the snow outside. They were dressed warmly, had what must be provision bags slung at their waists, and were armed with \expndtw-1 long bows and arrows as well as stone clubs and stone skin\-\expndtw2 ning knives. They were prepared for a hunting expedition,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2357\sb110\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 they knew not where, but they were prepared. When Mark \expndtw-3 waved them forward, they came at once. The only sign of the \expndtw-2 tension they must be feeling was in their manner of walking, \expndtw3 more like stalking a chase than entering a building. They \expndtw2 showed little interest in the outer room-they must have \expndtw-4 been here before-but were eyeing the heavy metal door with \expndtw0 more than casual interest. The deceased Joseph Wing must \expndtw1 have told them something about it, but Mark had already \expndtw3 decided to ignore this and tell the truth as clearly as they \expndtw1 could understand it.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Through that door is a long house that will bear us to the \expndtw-1 place where we will hunt. How it will take us there I do not \expndtw-2 know, for it is beyond my comprehension. But it will take us \expndtw-1 there as safely as a mother carries a papoose on her back, as \expndtw1 safely as a bark canoe carries us over the waters. Are you \expndtw-2 ready to go?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "Will you take the noise stick that kills?" Great Hawk \expndtw-2 asked, pointing with his thumb at the rifle Mark still carried.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\fs21 "Yes."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "It was one time said that the Oneida would be given noise \expndtw2 sticks and taught the manner of their use."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Why not, Mark thought, there were no rules to all this, \expndtw-1 anything went that would save these people. "Yes, you may \expndtw1 have them now if you wish, but I think until you can use \expndtw-1 them well, your bows will be better weapons."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "That is true. We will have them when we return."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The Sixim pulled the heavy door open, and without being \expndtw1 urged, the Indians filed into the brightly lit room beyond. They remained silent but held their weapons ready as the \expndtw-1 door was closed and the Sixim went through the door to the \expndtw0 operating room, only to emerge a moment later.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "The journey is over," Mark said. "Now we hunt."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Only when the outer door was opened onto the grassy \expndtw-2 sunlit plain did they believe him. They grunted with surprise \expndtw2 as they left, calling out in wonder at the strange sights and \expndtw0 the warm temperature. Mark looked around nervously, but \expndtw3 the herd of mammoth was gone. There were more than \expndtw1 enough other things to capture the Indians' attention. They saw animals where he saw only grass and trees and called \expndtw0 attention to them with pleased shouts. Yet they were silent \expndtw-1 instantly when Great Hawk raised his hand for silence, then \expndtw-3 pointed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "There, under those trees. It looks like a large pig."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6\fs21 Mark could see nothing in the shadows, but the other\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2366\sb106\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Indians were apparently in agreement, for they were nocking \expndtw-4 arrows to their bows. When the dark, scuffling shape emerged \expndtw1 into the sunlight, they were ready for it, A European boar, \expndtw0 far larger than they had ever seen. The boar had never seen \expndtw1 men before either; it was not afraid; The arrows whistled; \expndtw-1 more than one struck home, the boar wheeled about, squeal\-\expndtw1 ing with pain, and crashed back into the undergrowth. Whooping with pleasure, the Oneida were instantly on its \expndtw2 trail.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li43\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Stay inside until we get back," Mark told the Sixim. "I want to be sure \i we \i0 can get back."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He ran swiftly after the others, who had already vanished \expndtw-3 under the trees. The trail was obvious, marked with the blood \expndtw0 of the fleeing animal, well trampled by its pursuers. From \expndtw2 ahead there came even louder squealing and shouts that \expndtw-4 ended in sudden silence. When Mark came up, it was all over; \expndtw-1 the boar was on its side, dead, its skull crushed in, while the \expndtw0 victorious Indians prodded its flanks and hams happily.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The explosion shook the ground at that moment, a long, \expndtw2 deep rumbling sound that hammered at their ears. It stag\-\expndtw1 gered them, it was so close and loud, frightening them be\-\expndtw-3 cause they did not know what it was. Mark did. He had heard \expndtw-2 this kind of noise before. He wheeled about and watched the \expndtw1 large cloud of greasy black smoke roiling and spreading as it climbed up the sky. It rose from behind the trees in the \expndtw0 direction of the building. Then he was running, slamming a \expndtw-2 cartridge in the chamber of the rifle at the same time, thumb\-\expndtw-1 ing off the safety.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The scene was a disaster. He stumbled and almost fell as \expndtw1 he emerged from beneath the trees.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Where the squat steel building had stood was now only a \expndtw0 smoking, flame-licked ruin of torn and twisting plates. On \expndtw1 the grass nearby, one leg ripped away and as torn himself, \expndtw0 lay the Sixim.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The doorway between the worlds was closed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri29\sb163\qc\cf1\lang1033\fs21 7\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri43\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Mark just stood there, motionless, even after the Indians \expndtw1 came up and ranked themselves beside him, calling out in \expndtw-1 wonder at the devastation. They did not realize yet that they were exiled from their tribe and their own world. The Sixim raised its head and called out hoarsely; Mark ran to it. Much of its imitation flesh was gone, and metal shone through the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2318\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 gaps. Its face had suffered badly as well, but it could still talk.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "What happened?" Mark asked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "There were strangers in the room, men with guns. This \expndtw0 is not allowed. There are orders. I actuated the destruct mech\-\expndtw5 anism and attempted to use the escape device."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Mark looked at the ruin and flames. "There is no way this \expndtw6 room can be used again?" -\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3 "No."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Are there other rooms on this world?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\tlul\tx3456\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "One that I know of, perhaps more\expndtw0\tab "\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "One is enough! Where is it?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "What is the name of your world line?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "What difference does that make?... All right, it's called Einstein."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "The room is located on an island that is named Manhat\-\expndtw6 tan." '\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 "Of course! The original one I came through. But that must \expndtw4 be at least two hundred miles away from here as the crow \expndtw0 flies."\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 But what was two hundred miles as compared to the gap between the worlds? His boots were sound, he was a couple of pounds overweight, but otherwise in good condition. He \expndtw5 had companions who were at home in the wilds and knew \expndtw1 how to live off the land. If they would come with him... They \expndtw3 had little other choice. If he could explain to them what had \expndtw7 happened and what they must do...\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li10\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 It was not easy, but the existence of this world led them \expndtw4 to believe anything he told them-if not believe it, at least \expndtw1 not to doubt it too strongly. In the end they were almost eager \expndtw5 to see what this new land had to offer, what other strange \expndtw4 animals there were to hunt. While the others butchered and smoked the fresh-killed meat, Mark labored to explain to \expndtw5 Great Hawk that they were physically at the same place in the world as the one they had left. The Indian worked hard \expndtw4 to understand this but could not, since this was obviously a \expndtw2 different place. Mark finally forced him to accept the fact on \expndtw6 faith, to operate as if it were true even though he knew it \expndtw3 wasn't.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 When it came to finding the island of Manhattan, Great \expndtw4 Hawk called a conference of all the Indians. They strolled \expndtw3 over slowly, grease-smeared and happy, stomachs bulging with fresh meat. Mark could only listen as they explored the \expndtw6 geography of New York State, as they knew it and as they\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2366\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 had heard of it from others. In the end they agreed on the location of the island, at the mouth of the great river at the \expndtw-1 ocean nearby the long island. But they knew they could not \expndtw0 get there from this place, then went back to their butchery. They fell asleep in the middle of this; it was late afternoon, \expndtw1 so he gave up any hope of starting this day. He resigned \expndtw-2 himself to the delay and was eating some of the roasted meat \expndtw-1 himself when the Sixim appeared out of the forest. It had \expndtw-2 shaped a rough crutch from a branch, which it held under its \expndtw0 arm as it walked. Arinix had said the creatures were almost \expndtw1 indestructible, and it appeared he was right.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Mark questioned the Sixim, but it did not know how to get \expndtw-1 to Manhattan, nor did it have any knowledge of the geog\-\expndtw2 raphy of this world. When the sun set, Mark stretched out \expndtw1 by the fire with the others and slept just as soundly as they \expndtw0 did. He was up at first light, and as the sun rose in the east, he squinted at it and realized what he had to do. He would \expndtw-2 have to lead them out of here. He shook Great Hawk awake,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "We walk east toward the sun," he said, "When we reach \expndtw2 the great river, we turn and follow it downstream to the \expndtw-3 south. Can we do that?" If there were a Hudson River on this \expndtw-2 world ... and if the Indians would follow him,,, Great Hawk \expndtw0 looked at him solemnly for a long moment, then sat,up.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li34\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 "We leave now." He whistled shrilly, and the others \expndtw0 stirred.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The Indians enjoyed the outing very much, chattering \expndtw-1 about the sights along the way and looking with amusement \expndtw0 at what was obviously a happy hunting ground. Game was \expndtw-2 everywhere-creatures they knew and others that were com\-\expndtw1 pletely strange. There was a herd of great oxlike creatures \expndtw0 that resembled the beasts of the cave paintings in Altamira, \expndtw-2 aurochs perhaps, and they had a glimpse of a great cat stalk\-\expndtw2 ing them that appeared to have immensely long tusks. A \expndtw-2 sabertooth tiger? All things were possible on this newly rip\-\expndtw1 ening desert world. They walked for five days through this \expndtw-3 strange landscape before they reached what could only be the Hudson River.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Except that, like the Colorado River, this river had cut an \expndtw1 immense gorge through what had formerly been a barren \expndtw-4 landscape. They crept close to the high cliffs and peered over. \expndtw-2 There was no possible way to descend.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "South," Mark said, and turned along the edge, and the \expndtw-3 others followed him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2112\li2352\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 A day later they reached a spot where a tributary joined \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 the Hudson and where the banks were lower and more \expndtw-1 graded. In addition, many seeds had been Sown or carried here, and strands of trees lined the shore. It took the Indians \expndtw0 less than a day to assemble branches, trunks, and driftwood to make a sizable raft. Using strips of rawhide, they bound \expndtw-1 this firmly together, loaded their food aboard, then climbed \expndtw0 aboard themselves. As the Indians poled and paddled, the \expndtw-2 clumsy craft left shore, was carried quickly out into the main current, and hurried south. Manhattan would be at the river's mouth.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 This part of the trip was the easiest, and far swifter than \expndtw-3 Mark had realized. The landscape was so different from what \expndtw0 he -knew of the valley, with alternate patches of vegetation \expndtw1 and desert, that he found it hard to tell where they were. A \expndtw-1 number of fair-sized streams entered the river from the east, \expndtw2 and there was no guarantee that the East River, which cut \expndtw1 Manhattan off from the mainland, existed on this world. If \expndtw2 it were there he thought it another tributary, for he never \expndtw-3 saw it. There were other high cliffs, so the Palisades were not \expndtw1 that noticeable.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "This water is no good," Great Hawk said. He had scooped \expndtw2 up a handful from the river, and he now spat it out. Mark \expndtw0 dipped some himself. It was brackish, salty.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "The ocean, tidewater-we're near the mouth of the river! \expndtw0 Pull to shore, quickly."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 What he had thought was a promontory ahead showed \expndtw-1 nothing but wide water beyond it, the expanse of New York Harbor. They landed on- what would be the site of Battery \expndtw3 Park on the southernmost tip of the island. The Indians \expndtw-2 worked in silence, unloading the raft, and when Mark started \expndtw-1 to speak, Great Hawk held his finger to his lips for silence, \expndtw1 then leaned close to whisper in his ear.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri34\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Men over this hill, very close. Smell them, smell the fire, \expndtw0 they are cooking meat."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Show me," Mark whispered in return.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He could not move as silently as the Oneida did; they \expndtw-2 vanished like smoke among the trees. Mark followed as qui\-\expndtw2 etly as he could, and a minute later Great Hawk was back \expndtw-5 to lead him. They crawled the last few yards on their stomachs \expndtw-2 under the bushes, hearing the sound of mumbled voices. The \expndtw-1 Indian moved a branch slowly aside, and Mark looked into \expndtw0 the clearing.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Three khaki-clad soldiers were gathered around a fire over \expndtw-4 which a smoking carcass roasted. They had heavy rifles slung\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2362\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li139\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 across their shoulders. A fourth, a sergeant with upside-down \expndtw-2 stripes, was stretched out asleep with his wide-brimmed hat \expndtw-3 over his face.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li139\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 They spoke quietly in order not to waken him, a strangely \expndtw1 familiar language deep in their throats.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li139\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 It was Dutch-not Dutch, Afrikaans. But what were they \expndtw-3 doing here?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li130\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Mark crawled back to the others, and by the time he had reached them, the answer was clear-too clear, and fright\-\expndtw0 ening. But it was the only possibility. He must tell them.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li125\ri14\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "Those men are soldiers. I know them. Warriors with noise \expndtw-2 sticks. I think they are the ones who took over the room and \expndtw1 destroyed it. They are here, which must mean they have \expndtw0 taken over the room here. Without it we cannot return."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li120\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "What must we do?" Great Hawk asked. The answer was \expndtw0 obvious, but Mark hesitated to say it. He was a lawyer, or \expndtw-2 had been a lawyer-a man of the law. But what was the law \expndtw-1 here?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li110\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "If we are to return, we will have to kill them, without \expndtw0 any noise, then kill or capture the others at the room. If we \expndtw-1 don't do that, we will be trapped here, cut off from the tribe \expndtw-4 forever,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri24\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The Indians, who lived by hunting, and were no strangers \expndtw-3\bullet  to tribal warfare, were far less worried about the killing than was Mark. They conferred briefly, and Great Hawk and three \expndtw1 others vanished silently back among the trees. Mark sat, \expndtw2 staring.sightlessly at the ground, trying to equate this with \expndtw-3 his civilized conscience. For a moment he envied the battered \expndtw-4 Sixim, who stood by his side, unbothered by emotions or wor\-ries. An owl called and the remaining Indians stood and called \expndtw0 Mark after them.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li82\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The clearing was the same, the meat still smoked on the \expndtw-1 spit, the sergeant's hat was still over his eyes. But an arrow stood out starkly from his side below his arm. The huddled forms of the other soldiers revealed the instant, silent death \expndtw-2 that had spoken from the forest. With no show of emotion, \expndtw-3 the Indians cut the valuable arrows \i free \i0 of the corpses, com\-\expndtw-2 menting only on the pallid skin of the men, then looted their weapons and supplies. The guns might be useful; the arrows \expndtw0 certainly were. Great Hawk was scouting the clearing and \expndtw-2 found a-to him-clearly marked trail. The sun was behind \expndtw1 the trees when they started down it.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li82\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The building was not far away. They looked at it from \expndtw-4 hiding, the now familiar rusted and riveted plates of its walls,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2438\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 the heavy sealed door. Only, this door was gaping open, and \expndtw-1 the building itself was surrounded by a palisade of thin trees \expndtw-2 and shrubs. A guard stood at the only gate, and the enclosure wds filled with troops. Mark could see heavy weapons and \expndtw2 mortars there.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "It will be hard to kill all of these without being killed ourselves," Great Hawk said.."So we shall not try."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi1224\li1296\ri2304\sb187\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 8 \cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 The Indians could not be convinced even to consider action. \expndtw1 They lay about in the gathering darkness, chewing on the \expndtw-1 tough slabs of meat, ignoring all of-Mark's arguments. They \expndtw-2 were as realistic as any animal, and not interested in suicide. \expndtw0 A mountain lion attacks a deer, a deer runs from a lion-it \expndtw-1 never happens the other way around. They would wait here \expndtw0 until morning and watch the camp, then decide what to do. \expndtw-2 But it was obvious that the options did not include an attack. \expndtw0 Would it end this way, defeat without battle... and a barren \expndtw-1 lifetime on a savage planet stretching ahead of them? More \expndtw0 barren to Mark, who had a civilized man's imagination and \expndtw-3 despair. The Indians had no such complications in their lives. \expndtw0 They chewed the meat, the matter dismissed and forgotten, and in low whispers discussed the hunting and the animals while darkness fell. Mark sat, silent with despair; the Sixim \expndtw-2 loomed silent as a tree beside him. The Sixim would follow \expndtw0 orders, but the two of them were not going to capture this armed camp. Something might happen-he must make the Indians stay and watch and help him. He doubted if they \expndtw-8 would.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li14\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5\fs21 Something did happen, and far sooner than he had \expndtw0 thought. Great Hawk, who had slipped away to watch the \expndtw-3 building, came back suddenly and waved the others to follow \expndtw-5 him. They went to the fringe of the trees once more and looked \expndtw2 at the activity in the camp with astonishment.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The gate was standing open, and there was no guard upon \expndtw-4 it.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri19\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 All of the soldiers had drawn up in a semicircle facing the \expndtw1 open door of the building. Fires had been lit near it. All of \expndtw0 the heavy weapons had been trained on the opening.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Don't you see what has happened!" Mark said excitedly. \expndtw1 "They may control this building and others like it in other \expndtw0 lines, but they cannot possibly control them all. They must be expecting a counterattack. They can do nothing until the\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2371\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 attackers appear except wait and be ready. Do you under\-\expndtw1 stand-this is our chance! They are not expecting trouble \expndtw0 from this flank. Get close in the darkness. Wait. Wait until \expndtw2 the attack. Then we take out the machine guns-they are \expndtw-1 the real danger-sow confusion. Taken from the front and \expndtw1 rear at the same time, they cannot win. Sixim, can you fire \expndtw-1 a rifle? One of these we captured?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I can. I have examined their mechanism."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "How is your aim?" It was a foolish question to ask.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "I\i  \i0 hit what I aim at, every time."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Then let us get close and get into positions. This may be \expndtw-5 our only chance. If we don't do it this time, there will probably \expndtw-1 be no second chance. Once they know we are out here, the \expndtw-3 guns will face both ways. Come, we have to get close now."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He moved out toward the enclosure, the Sixim, rifle slung, \expndtw-1 limping at his side. The Indians stayed where they were. He \expndtw1 turned back to them, but they were as solid and unmoving \expndtw-4 as rock in their silence. Nothing more could be done. This left \expndtw-3 only the two of them, man and machine man, to do their best.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 They were almost too late, While they were still twenty \expndtw-1 yards' from the palisade, sudden fire erupted from inside the \expndtw2 building; the South Africans guns roared in return. Mark \expndtw0 ran, drawing ahead of the Sixim, running through the open \expndtw-3 gate, to fall prone in the darkness near the wall and to control \expndtw-1 his breathing. To squeeze off his shots carefully.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 One gunner fell, then another. Tie Sixim was beside him, \expndtw1 firing at target after target with machine regularity. Some\-\expndtw-3 one had seen the muzzle blast of their guns, because weapons \expndtw2 were turned on them, bullets tearing into the earth beside \expndtw-1 them, soldiers running toward them. Mark's gun clicked out \expndtw-2 of battery, empty of cartridges. He tore the empty clip away, \expndtw0 struggled to jam in a full one; the soldier was above him.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Falling to one side with an arrow in his chest. Darker \expndtw-5 shadows moved, just as a solid wave of Sixim erupted through \expndtw-3 the open doorway.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 That was the beginning of the end. As soon as they were \expndtw3 among the soldiers, the slaughter began, no mercy, no \expndtw0 quarter. Mark called the Indians to him, to the protection of their own battered Sixim, before they were also cut down. The carnage was brief and complete, and when it was over, a familiar one-eyed figure emerged from the building,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li5\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Arinix," Mark called out, and the man turned and came \expndtw-1 over, "How did all this happen?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2122\li2362\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "They were suspicious; they had been watching us for a \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 long time. That officer we did not kill led them to this build\-\expndtw-1 ing." He said it without malice or regret, a statement of fact. \expndtw0 Mark had no answer.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Is this the last of them? Is the way open now?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "There are more, but they will be eliminated. You see what \expndtw-2 happens when others attempt to control the way between the \expndtw2 worlds?" He started away, then turned back. "Have you \expndtw1 solved the problem with the Indians? Will they settle this \expndtw-6 world?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I think so. I would like to stay with them longer, give \expndtw1 them what help I can."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "You do not wish to return to Einstein?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 That was a hard one to answer. Back to New York and \expndtw0 the pollution and the life as a lawyer. It suddenly seemed a good deal emptier than it had. "I don't know. Perhaps, per\-\expndtw1 haps not. Let me finish here first."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Arinix turned away instantly and was gone. Mark went \expndtw0 to Great Hawk, who sat cross-legged on' the ground and \expndtw2 watched the operation with a great deal of interest. '\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Why did you and the others come to help?" Mark asked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "It seemed too good a fight to miss. Besides, you said you \expndtw-3 would show us how to use the noise sticks. You could not do \expndtw0 that if you were dead."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The smoke from the dying fires rose up in thin veils against \expndtw1 the bright stars in the sky above. In his nostrils the air was \expndtw-2 cold and clean, its purity emphasized by the smell of wood \expndtw-4 smoke. Somewhere, not too far away, a wolf howled long and \expndtw-3 mournfully. This world, so recently empty of life, now had it \expndtw-1 in abundance, and would soon have human settlers as well, \expndtw0 Indians of the Six Nations who would be escaping the fire \expndtw-4 that would destroy their own world. What sort of world would \expndtw0 they make of it?\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He had the sudden desire to see what would happen here, \expndtw-4 even to help in the shaping of it. The cramped life of a lawyer \expndtw-1 in a crowded world was without appeal. He had friends that he would miss, but he knew that new friends waited for him \expndtw-4 in the multiplicity of worlds he would soon visit. Really, there was no choice.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Arinix was by the open door issuing orders to the attentive \expndtw-1 Sixim. Mark called out to him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The decision had really been an easy one.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\cf1\lang1033\fs77 3\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sb413\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\b\fs33 EARTH DESTROYED\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\sb341\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 What if the Universe and Sun are essentially undisturbed, but Earth itself undergoes a battering in a "Catastrophe of \expndtw0 the Third Class"?\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 There have been dangers to Earth that were popular with \expndtw0 science fiction writers in decades past but that have never \expndtw-3 really been in the astronomical cards. The planets of the solar \expndtw-1 system \i cannot \i0 be so perturbed in their movements that they \expndtw-2 begin a slow spiral into the Sun-not unless some method is provided for bleeding off their tremendous angular momen\-\expndtw0 tum. Nevertheless, it is a colorful possibility that sf hates to \expndtw-2 abandon ("Requiem" by Edmond Hamilton).\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Today the Universe has become much more violent than \expndtw-4 m the old, old days of thirty years ago. We have learned about not merely exploding stars, but the cores of galaxies-billions \expndtw0 of stars-that go up in agony. We deal with collapses into \expndtw-2 pulsars and black holes and the incredibly luminous quasars, \expndtw1 And all of this gives writers the opportunity for dramatic \expndtw0 ends indeed to Earth for the violence gives rise to radiation and that- ("At the Core" by Larry Nivenj,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The reverse is also dramatic. What if something happens \expndtw1 to deprive us of our Sun altogether and we are threatened \expndtw2 with ruin not through excess of energy but utter lack ("A \expndtw0 Pail of Air" by Fritz Leiberi.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Nor need we feel we are entirely at the mercy of outside influences. Such is the power \i of Homo sapiens \i0 for evil that we can (and very likely are) ruining ourselves by the simple \expndtw-5 process of fouling our nest ("'King of the Hill" by Chad Oliver).\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi662\li1368\ri1152\sl-475\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\b\fs28 Requiem \expndtw-1\b0 EDMOND HAMILTON\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\sb418\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Kellon thought sourly that he wasn't commanding a star-\expndtw2 ship, he was running a traveling circus. He had aboard \expndtw-1 telaudio men with tons of equipment, pontifical commenta\-\expndtw-3 tors who knew the answer to anything, beautiful females who \expndtw0 were experts on the woman's angle, pompous bureaucrats \expndtw-1 after publicity, and entertainment stars who had come along \expndtw0 for the same reason.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He had had a good ship and crew, one of the best in the \expndtw0 Survey. \i Had \i0 had. They weren't any more. They had been \expndtw-1 taken off their proper job of pushing astrographical knowl\-\expndtw0 edge ever further into the remote regions of the galaxy, and \expndtw-3 had been sent off with this cargo of costly people on a totally \expndtw-1 unnecessary mission,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He said bitterly to himself, "Damn all sentimentalists."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He said aloud, "Does its position check with your calcu\-\expndtw-1 lated orbit, Mr. Riney?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Riney, the Second, a young and serious man who had been \expndtw0 fussing with instruments in the astrogation room, came out and said,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Yes. Right on the nose. Shall we go in and land now?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Kellon didn't answer for a moment, standing there in the \expndtw-3 front of the bridge, a middle-aged man, stocky, square-shoul\-\expndtw0 dered, and with his tanned, plain face showing none of the resentment he felt. He hated to give the order but he had to.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "All right, take her in."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri43\sb10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He looked gloomily through -the filter-windows as they \expndtw0 went in. In this fringe-spiral of the galaxy, stars were rela\-tively infrequent, and there were only ragged drifts of them across the darkness. Full ahead shone a small, compact sun \expndtw-3 like a diamond. It was a white dwarf and had been so for two \expndtw-1 thousand years, giving forth so little warmth that the planets\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2352\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 which circled it had been frozen and ice-locked all that time. \expndtw0 They still were, all except the innermost world.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Kellon stared at that planet, a tawny blob. The ice that \expndtw-1 had sheathed it ever since its primary collapsed into a white \expndtw-5 dwarf had now melted. Months before, a dark wandering body \expndtw-1 had passed very close to this lifeless system. Its passing had \expndtw2 perturbed the planetary orbits and the inner planets had \expndtw1 started to spiral slowly in toward their sun, and the ice had \expndtw-3 begun to go.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li43\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Viresson, one of the junior officers, came into the bridge \expndtw-1 looking harassed. He said to Kellon,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "They want to see you down below, sir. Especially Mr. \expndtw0 Borrodale. He says it's urgent."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li38\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Kellon thought wearily, Well, I might as well go down and \expndtw0 face the pack of them. Herd's where they really begin.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He nodded to Viresson, and went do'wn below to the main \expndtw0 cabin. The sight of it revolted him. Instead of his own men in it, relaxing or chinning, it held a small and noisy mob of \expndtw-2 overdressed, overloud men and women, all of whom seemed \expndtw1 to be talking at once and uttering brittle, nervous laughter.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Captain Kellon, I want to ask you-"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Captain, if you \i please\i0 -"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri24\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He patiently nodded and smiled and plowed through them \expndtw1 to Borrodale He had been given particular instructions to \expndtw-1 cooperate with Borrodale, the most famous tetaudio com\-\expndtw1 mentator in the Federation.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri24\sb5\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Borrodale was a slightly plump man with a round pink \expndtw-1 face and incongruously large and solemn black eyes. When \expndtw0 he spoke, one recognized at once that deep, incredibly rich \expndtw-2 and meaningful voice.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri29\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "My first broadcast is set for thirty minutes from now, Captain. I shall want a view as we go in. If my men could take a mobile up to the bridge-"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri34\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Kellon nodded. "Of course. Mr. Viresson is up there and \expndtw1 will assist them in any way."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri43\sb5\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Thank you, Captain. Would you like to see the broad\-\expndtw-4 cast?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "I would, yes, but-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri48\sb5\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He was interrupted by Lorri Lee, whose glitteringly hand\-\expndtw0 some face and figure and sophisticated drawl made her the \expndtw-1 idol of all female telaudio reporters.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri43\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i\fs21 "My \i0 broadcast is to be right after landing-remember? I'd \expndtw2 like to do it alone, with just the emptiness of that world as\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2352\sl-206\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 background. Can you keep the others from spoiling the effect? \expndtw1 Please?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "We'll do what we can," Kellon mumbled. And as the rest \expndtw3 of the pack converged on him he added hastily, "I'll talk to you later. Mr. Borrodale's broadcast-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 He got through them, following after Borrodale toward the \expndtw6 cabin that had been set up as a telaudio-transmitter room. \expndtw4 It had, Kellon thought bitterly, once served an honest pur\-\expndtw3 pose, holding the racks of soil and water and other samples \expndtw2 from far worlds. But that had been when they were doing an \expndtw3 honest Survey job, not chaperoning chattering fools on this \expndtw4 sentimental pilgrimage.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 The broadcasting set-up was beyond Kellon. He didn't \expndtw4 want to hear this but it was better than the mob in the main \expndtw3 cabin. He watched as Borrodale made a signal. The monitor-\expndtw2 screen came alive.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 It showed a dun-colored globe spinning in space, growing \expndtw4 visibly larger as they swept toward it. Now straggling seas \expndtw1 were identifiable upon it. Moments passed and Borrodale did not speak, just letting that picture go out. Then his deep voice \expndtw4 spoke over the picture, with dramatic simplicity.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "You are looking at the Earth," he said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Silence again, and the spinning brownish ball was bigger now, with white clouds ragged upon it. And then Borrodale spoke again.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "You who watch from many worlds in the galaxy-this is the homeland of our race. Speak its name to yourselves. The \expndtw6 Earth."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 Kellon felt a deepening distaste. This was all true, but \expndtw5 still it was phony. What was Earth now to him, or to Bor\-\expndtw3 rodale, or his billions of listeners? But it was a story, a sen\-timental occasion, so they had to pump it up into something \expndtw-4 big.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Some thirty-five hundred years ago," Borrodale was say\-ing, "our ancestors lived on this world alone. That was when \expndtw4 they first went into space. To these other planets first-but \expndtw3 very soon, to other stars. And so our Federation began, our \expndtw1 community of human civilization on many stars and worlds."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Now, in the monitor, the view of Earth's dun globe had \expndtw-1 been replaced by the face of Borrodale in close-up. He paused \expndtw4 dramatically.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 "Then, over two thousand years ago, it was discovered that \expndtw2 the sun of Earth was about to collapse into a white dwarf. So \expndtw4 those people who still remained on Earth left it forever and\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2357\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li58\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 when the solar change came, it and the other planets became \expndtw5 mantled in eternal ice. And now, within months, the final \expndtw4 end of the old planet of our origin is at hand. It is slowly spiraling toward the sun and soon it will plunge into it as \expndtw0 Mercury and Venus have already done. And when that occurs, \expndtw3 the world of man's origin will he gone forever."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li53\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Again the pause, for just the right length of time, and then \expndtw4 Borrodale continued in a voice expertly pitched in a lower \expndtw-4 key.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "We on this ship-we humble reporters and servants of \expndtw1 the vast telaudio audience on all the worlds-have come here \expndtw3 so that in these next weeks we can give you this last look at \expndtw2 our ancestral world. We think-we hope-that you'll find \expndtw6 interest in recalling a past that is almost legend."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 And Kellon thought, The bastard has no more interest in \expndtw5 this old planet than I have, but he surely is smooth.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li38\ri34\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 As soon as the broadcast ended, Kellon found himself be\-\expndtw1 sieged once more by the clamoring crowd in the main cabin. \expndtw5 He held up his hand in protest.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Please, now now-we have a landing to make first. Will you come with me, Doctor Darnow?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Darnow was from Historical Bureau, and was the titular \expndtw0 head of the whole expedition, although no one paid him much \expndtw3 attention. He was a sparrowy, elderly man who babbled ex\-\expndtw4 citedly as he went with Kellon to the bridge.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 He at least, \i was \i0 sincere in his interest, Kellon thought. \expndtw0 For that matter, so were all the dozen-odd scientists who were \expndtw5 aboard. But they were far outnumbered by the fat cats and \expndtw4 big brass out for publicity, the professional enthusers and \expndtw6 sentimentalists. A real hell of a job the Survey had given \expndtw-6 him!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 In the bridge, he glanced through the window at the dun-\expndtw2 colored planet and its satellite. Then he asked Darnow, "You \expndtw6 said something about a particular place where you wanted \expndtw2 to land?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 The historiographer bobbed his head, and began unfolding a big, old-fashioned chart.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "See this continent here? Along its eastern coast were a \expndtw3 lot of the biggest cities, like New York."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Kellon remembered that name, he'd learned it in school \expndtw3 history, a long time ago.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Darnow\super l\nosupersub s finger stabbed the chart. "If you could land there, \expndtw5 right on the island-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2362\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li62\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Kellon studied the relief features, then shook his head. \expndtw1 "Too low. There'll be great tides as time goes on and we can't \expndtw6 take chances. That higher ground back inland a bit should \expndtw5 be all right, though."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li67\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Darnow looked disappointed. "Well. I suppose you're \expndtw3 right."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li62\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Kellon told Riney to set up the landing-pattern. Then he asked Darnow skeptically,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li58\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "You surely don't expect to find much in those old cities now-not after they've had all that ice on them for two thou\-\expndtw3 sand years?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li58\ri86\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "They'll be badly damaged, of course," Darnow admitted. \expndtw3 "But there should be a vast number of relics. I could study \expndtw2 here for years-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li53\ri82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 "We haven't got years, we've got only a few months before \expndtw3 this planet gets too close to the Sun," said Kellon. And he added mentally, "Thank God."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi278\ri82\sb202\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 The ship went into its landing-pattern. Atmosphere whined o\expndtw2 utside its hull and then thick gray clouds boiled and raced \expndtw3 around it. It went down through the cloud layer and moved above a dull brown landscape that had flecks of white in its \expndtw1 deeper valleys. Far ahead there was the glint of a gray ocean. \expndtw4 But the ship came down toward a rolling brown plain and \expndtw6 settled there, and then there was the expected thunderclap \expndtw3 of silence that always followed the shutting off of all ma\-\expndtw2 chinery.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri86\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Kellon looked at Riney, who turned in a moment from the \expndtw5 test-panel with a slight surprise on his face. "Pressure, ox\-\expndtw1 ygen, humidity, everything-all optimum." And then he said, \expndtw2 "But of course. This place \i was \i0 optimum."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri101\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Kellon nodded. He said, "Doctor Darnow and I will have \expndtw4 a look out first. Viresson, you keep our passengers in."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li29\ri91\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 When he and Darnow went to the lower airlock he heard \expndtw5 a buzzing clamor from the main cabin and he judged that \expndtw1 Viresson was having his hands full. The people in there were \expndtw3 not used to being said no to, and he could imagine their \expndtw5 resentment.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri106\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Cold, damp air struck a chill in Kellon when they stepped \expndtw5 down out of the airlock. They stood on muddy, gravelly \expndtw8 ground that squashed a little under their boots as they \expndtw0 trudged away from the ship. They stopped and looked around, \expndtw2 shivering.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2122\li2395\ri110\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Under the low gray cloudy sky there stretched a sad, sun-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 less brown landscape. Nothing broke the drab color of raw \expndtw-1 soil, except the shards of ice still lingering in low places, A \expndtw2 heavy desultory wind stirred the raw air, and then it was \expndtw0 still. There was not a sound except the clink-clinking of the \expndtw-1 ship's skin cooling and contracting, behind them. Kellon \expndtw2 thought that no amount of sentimentality could make this \expndtw1 anything but a dreary world,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 But Darnow's eyes were shining. "We'll have to make \expndtw1 every minute of the time count," he muttered, "Every min\-\expndtw-1 ute."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Within two hours, the heavy broadcast equipment was being trundled away from the ship on two motor-tracs that headed eastward. On one of the tracs rode Lorri Lee, re\-\expndtw-1 splendent in lilac-colored costume of synthesilk.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Kellon, worried about the possibility of quicksands, went along for that first broadcast from the cliffs that looked down \expndtw-1 on the ruins of New York. He wished he hadn't, when it got under way.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 For Lorri Lee, her blond head bright even in the dull light, \expndtw1 turned loose all her practiced charming gestures for the broadcast cameras, as she gestured with pretty excitement \expndtw0 down toward the ruins.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "It's so \i unbelievable!" \i0 she cried to a thousand worlds. "To \expndtw-2 be here on Earth, to see the old places again-it \i does \i0 some\-\expndtw-1 thing to you!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 It did something to Kellon. It made him feel sick at his \expndtw-2 stomach. He turned and went back to the ship, feeling at that \expndtw-1 moment that if Lorri Lee went into a quicksand on the way back, it would be no great loss.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li10\ri53\sb202\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 But that first day was only the beginning. The big ship \expndtw0 quickly became the center of multifarious and continuous \expndtw-2 broadcasts. It had been especially equipped to beam strongly \expndtw3 to the nearest station in the Federation network and its \expndtw1 transmitters were seldom quiet.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri58\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 Kellon found that Darnow, who was supposed to coordinate \expndtw-1 all this programming, was completely useless. The little his\-\expndtw-3 torian was living in a seventh heaven on this old planet which \expndtw0 had been uncovered to view for the first time in millennia, and he was away most of the time on field trips of his own. \expndtw1 It fell to his assistant, an earnest and worried and harassed young man, to try to reconcile the clashing claims and de\-mands of the highly temperamental broadcasting stars.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2122\li2362\ri82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 Kellon felt an increasing boredom at having to stand \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 around while all this tosh went out over the ether. These \expndtw-1 people were having a field-day but he didn't think much of them and of their broadcasts. Roy Quayle, the young male \expndtw3 fashion designer, put on a semi-humorous, semi-nostalgic \expndtw-2 . display of the old Earth fashions, with the prettier girls wear\-\expndtw-4 ing some of the ridiculous old costumes he had had duplicated. \expndtw0 Harden, the famous teleplay producer, ran off ancient films \expndtw2 of the old Earth dramas that had everyone in stitches. Jay \expndtw-2 Maxson, a rising politician in Federation Congress, discussed \expndtw-1 with Borrodale the governmental systems of the old days, in \expndtw0 a way calculated to give his own Wide-Galaxy Party none \expndtw1 the worst of it. The Arcturus Players, that brilliant group of \expndtw3 young stage-folk, did readings of old Earth dramas and \expndtw-7 poems.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li96\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 It was, Kellon thought disgustedly, just playing. Grown \expndtw-2 people, famous people, seizing the opportunity given by the \expndtw-3 accidental end of a forgotten planet to posture in the spotlight \expndtw0 like smart-aleck children. There was real work to do in the \expndtw-3 galaxy, the work of the Survey, the endless and wearying but \expndtw1 always-fascinating job of charting the wild systems and \expndtw-2 worlds. And instead of doing that job, he was condemned to \expndtw0 spend weeks and months here with these phonies.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li86\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The scientists and historians he respected. They did few broadcasts and they did not fake their interest. It was one of \expndtw-2 them, Haller, the biologist, who excitedly showed Kellon a \expndtw1 handful of damp soil a week after their arrival.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li331\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Look at \i that!" \i0 he said proudly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Kellon stared. "What?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li86\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Those seeds-they're common weed-grass seeds. Look at \expndtw-1 them."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li91\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Kellon looked, and now he saw that from each of the tiny \expndtw-1 seeds projected a new-looking hairlike tendril.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li331\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "They're sprouting?" he said unbelievingly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li82\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Haller nodded happily. "I was hoping for it. You see, it \expndtw-1 was almost spring in the northern hemisphere, according to \expndtw-2 the records, when Sol collapsed suddenly into a white dwarf. \expndtw0 Within hours the temperature plunged and the hydrosphere aad atmosphere began to freeze."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li326\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "But surely that would kill all plant-life?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\li58\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Ne," said Haller. "The larger plants, trees, perennial \expndtw0 shrubs, and so on, yes. But the seeds of the smaller annuals just froze into suspended animation. Now the warmth that melted them is causing germination."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2117\li2438\ri1536\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Then we'll have grass-small plants?" \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li365\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Very soon the way the warmth is increasing,"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li115\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 It was, indeed, getting a little warmer all the time as these first weeks went \i by. \i0 The clouds lifted one day and there was \expndtw2 brilliant, thin white sunshine from the little diamond sun. \expndtw-3 And there came a morning when they found the rolling land\-\expndtw0 scape flushed with a pale tint of green.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li106\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Grass grew. Weeds grew, vines grew, all of them seeming \expndtw-1 to rush their growth as though they knew that this, their last \expndtw-2 season, would not be long. Soon the raw brown mud of the \expndtw0 hills and valleys had been replaced by a green carpet, and \expndtw-3 everywhere taller growths were shooting ap, and flowers be\-\expndtw-1 ginning to appear. Hepaticas, bluebells, dandelions, violets, \expndtw-5 bloomed once more.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li96\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Kellon took a long walk, now that he did not have to plow \expndtw1 through mud. The chattering people around the ship, the constant tug and pull of clashing temperaments, the brittle, \expndtw-1 febrile voices, got him down. He felt better to get away by \expndtw-4 himself.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li86\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The grass and the flowers had come back but otherwise \expndtw0 this was still an empty world. Yet there was a certain peace \expndtw2 of mind'in tramping up and down the long green rolling \expndtw-5 slopes. The sun was bright and cheerful now, and white clouds \expndtw-1 dotted the sky, and the warm wind whispered as he sat upon a ridge and looked away westward where nobody was, or would ever be again.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li82\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Damned dull, he thought. But at least it's better than back \expndtw1 with the gabblers.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi326\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He sat for a long time in the slanting sunshine, feeling his \expndtw1 bristling nerves relax. The grass stirred about him, rippling \expndtw-1 in long waves, and the taller flowers nodded.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li72\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 No other movement, no other life, A pity, he thought, that there were no birds for this last spring of the old planet-not \expndtw-3 even a butterfly. Well, it made no difference, all this wouldn't \expndtw-1 last long.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li86\sl-197\slmult0\tx4339\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21    As Kellon tramped back through the\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2 dusk, he\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li62\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 suddenly became aware of a shining bubble in the darkening \expndtw1 sky. He st&pped and stared up at it and then remembered. \expndtw-1 Of course, it was the old planet's moon-during the cloudy \expndtw1 nights he had forgotten all about it. He went on, with its vague light about him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li53\ri67\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 When he stepped back into the lighted main cabin of the \expndtw-2 ship, he was abruptly jarred out of his relaxed mood. A first-class squabble was going on, and everybody was either con-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2419\sb110\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 tributing to it or commenting on it. Lorri Lee, looking like \expndtw1 a pretty child complaining of a hurt, was maintaining that \expndtw-1 she should have broadcast time next day for her special \expndtw0 women's-interest feature, and somebody else disputed her \expndtw-3 claim, and young Vallely, Darnow's assistant, looked harried and upset. Kellon got by them without being noticed, locked \expndtw-1 the door of his cabin and poured himself a long drink, and \expndtw1 damned Survey all over again for this assignment.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He took good care to get out of the ship early in the morn\-\expndtw-1 ing, before the storm of temperament blew up again. He left \expndtw1 Viresson in charge of the ship, there being nothing for any \expndtw-4 of them to do now anyway, and legged it away over the green \expndtw-2 slopes before anyone could call him back.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 They had five more weeks of this, Kellon thought. Then, \expndtw0 thank God, Earth would be getting so near the sun that they \expndtw1 must take the ship back into its proper element of space. \expndtw-2 Until that wished-for day arrived, he would stay out of sight as much as possible.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He walked miles each day. He stayed carefully away from \expndtw-1 the east and the ruins of old New York, where the others so often were. But he went north and west and south, over the grassy, flowering slopes of the empty world. At least it was \expndtw1 peaceful, even though there was nothing at all to see.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li10\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 But after a while, Kellon found that there were things to \expndtw2 see if you looked for them. There was the way the sky \expndtw-1 changed, never seeming to look the same twice. Sometimes \expndtw-2 it was deep blue and white clouds sailed it like mighty ships. \expndtw1 And then it would suddenly turn gray and miserable, and \expndtw-2 rain would drizzle on him, to be ended when a lance of sun\-\expndtw-1 light shot through the clouds and slashed them to flying rib\-\expndtw-2 bons. And there was a time when, upon a ridge, he watched \expndtw0 vast thunderheads boil up and darken in the west and black \expndtw-2 storm clouds marched across the land like an army with ban\-\expndtw1 ners of lightning and drums of thunder.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The winds and the sunshine, the sweetness of the air and \expndtw-1 the look of the moonlight and the feel of the yielding grass \expndtw-2 under his feet, all seemed oddly right. Kellon had walked on \expndtw-4 many worlds under the glare of many-colored suns, and some \expndtw-1 of them he had liked much better than this one and some of them he had not liked at all, but never had he found a world \expndtw0 that seemed so exactly attuned to his body as this outworn, empty planet.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri43\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He wondered vaguely what it had been like when there \expndtw0 were trees and birds, and animals of many kinds, and roads\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2357\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li58\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 and cities. He borrowed film-books from the reference library \expndtw0 Darnow and the others had brought, and looked at them in \expndtw-1 his cabin of nights. He did not really care very much but at \expndtw3 feast it kept him out of the broils and quarrels, and it had \expndtw2 a certain interest.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Thereafter in his wandering strolls, Kellon tried to see the \expndtw-5 place as it would have been in the long ago. There would have \expndtw-4 been robins and bluebirds, and yellow-and-black bumblebees \expndtw3 nosing the flowers, and tall trees with names that were \expndtw-4 equally strange to him, elms and willows and sycamores. And \expndtw1 small furred animals, and humming clouds of insects, and \expndtw-3 fish and frogs in the pools and streams, a whole vast complex symphony of life, long gone, long forgotten.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 But were all the men and women and children who had \expndtw1 lived here less forgotten? Borrodale and the others talked \expndtw-1 much on their broadcasts about the people of old Earth, but \expndtw2 that was just a faceless name, a term that meant nothing. \expndtw-3 Not one of those millions, surely, had ever thought of himself \expndtw2 as part of a numberless multitude. Each one had been to \expndtw-5 himself, and to those close to him or her, an individual, unique \expndtw-4 and never to be exactly repeated, and what did the glib talkers \expndtw-1 know of all those individuals, what could anyone know?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Kellon found traces of them here and there, bits of flotsam \expndtw-1 that even the crash of the ice had spared. A twisted piece of \expndtw1 steel, a girder or rail that someone had labored to make. A quarry with the tool-marks still on the rocks, where surely \expndtw-2 men had once sweated in the sun. The broken shards of con\-\expndtw2 crete that stretched away in a ragged line to make a road \expndtw1 upon which men and women had once traveled, hurrying \expndtw-1 upon missions of love or ambition, greed or fear.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li24\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\fs21 He found more than that, a startling find that he made \expndtw-2 by purest chance. He followed a brook that ran down a very \expndtw-1 narrow valley, and at one point he leaped across it and as he \expndtw1 landed he looked up and saw that there was a house.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Kellon thought at first that it was miraculously preserved \expndtw-2 whole and unbroken, and surely that could not be, But when \expndtw1 he went closer he saw that this was only illusion and that \expndtw0 destruction had been at work upon it too. Still, it remained, \expndtw-2 incredibly, a recognizable house.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 It was a rambling stone cottage with low walls and a slate roof, set close against the steep green wall of the valley. One \expndtw-4 gable-end was smashed in, and part of that end wall. Studying \expndtw1 the way it was embayed in the wall, Kellon decided that a \expndtw2 chance natural arch of ice must have preserved it from the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2352\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 grinding pressure that had shattered almost all other struc\-\expndtw0 tures.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri19\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The windows and doors were only gaping openings. He \expndtw-4 went inside and looked around the cold shadows of what had once been a room. There were some wrecked pieces of rotting \expndtw-1 furniture, and dried mud banked along one wall contained unrecognizable bits of rusted junk, but there was not much \expndtw1 else. It was chill and oppressive in there, and he went out \expndtw3 and sat on the little terrace in the sunshine.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He looked at the house. It could have been built no later \expndtw-1 than the Twentieth Century, he thought. A good many dif\-\expndtw0 ferent people must have lived in it during the hundreds of years before the evacuation of Earth.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Kellon thought that it was strange that the airphoto sur\-\expndtw-2 veys that Darnow's men had made in quest of relics had not \expndtw-3 discovered the place. But then it was not so strange, the stone \expndtw-2 walls were so grayly inconspicuous and it was set so deeply \expndtw1 into the sheltering bay of the valley wall.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 His eye fell on'eroded lettering on the cement side of the terrace, and he went and brushed the soil off that place. The \expndtw0 words were time-eaten and faint but he could read them.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Ross and Jennie-Their House."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Kellon smiled. Well, at least he knew now who once had lived here, who probably had built the place. He could imag\-ine two young people happily scratching the words in the wet cement, exuberant with achievement. And who had Ross and \expndtw0 Jennie been, and where were they now?\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He walked around the place. To his surprise, there was a \expndtw-3 ragged flower-garden'at one side. A half-dozen kinds of bril\-\expndtw0 liant little flowers, unlike the wild ones of the slopes, grew \expndtw1 in patchy disorder here. Seeds of an old garden had been \expndtw-4 ready to germinate when the long winter of Earth came down, \expndtw1 and had slept in suspended animation until the ice melted \expndtw-1 and the warm blooming time came at last. He did not know \expndtw-3 what kinds of flowers these were, but there was a brave jaun-\expndtw2 tiness about them that he liked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Starting back across the green land in the soft twilight, Kellon thought that he should tell Darnow about the place. \expndtw-1 But if he did, the gabbling pack in the ship would certainly stampede toward it. He could imagine the solemn and cute and precious broadcasts that Borrodale and the Lee woman \expndtw0 and rest of them would stage from the old house.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2122\li2362\ri1459\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 No, he thought. The devil with them. \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li58\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He didn't care anything himself about the old house, it \expndtw0 was just that it was a refuge of quiet he had found and he \expndtw1 didn't want to draw to it the noisy horde he was trying to \expndtw-7 escape.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\ri24\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Kellon was glad in the following days that he had not told. \expndtw-1 The house gave him a place to go to, to poke around and \expndtw1 investigate, a focus for his interest in this waiting time. He spent hours there, and never told anyone at all.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Haller, the biologist, lent him a book on the flowers of \expndtw2 Earth, and he brought it with him and used it to identify \expndtw-3 those in the ragged garden. Verbenas, pinks, morning glories, \expndtw0 and the bold red and yellow ones called nasturtiums. Many \expndtw-1 of these, he read, did not do well on other worlds and had \expndtw1 never been successfully transplanted. If that was so, this \expndtw0 would be their last blooming anywhere at all.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He rooted around the interior of the house, trying to figure \expndtw0 out how people had lived in it. It was strange, not at all like \expndtw-2 a modern metalloy house. Even the interior walls were thick \expndtw-4 beyond belief, and the windows seemed small and ppkey. The \expndtw-2 biggest room was obviously where they had lived most, and \expndtw-1 its window-openings looked out on the little garden and the green valley and brook beyond.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Kellon wondered what they had been like, the Ross and \expndtw-1 Jennie who had once sat here together and looked out these \expndtw1 windows. What things had been important to them? What \expndtw-1 had hurt them, what had made them laugh? He himself had \expndtw-2 never married, the far-ranging captains of the Survey seldom \expndtw0 did. But he wondered about this marriage of long ago, and \expndtw-1 what had come of it. Had they had children, did their blood \expndtw0 still run on the far worlds? But even if it did, what was that \expndtw-3 now to those two of long ago?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 There had been a poem about flowers at the end of the old \expndtw0 book on flowers Halter had lent him, and he remembered \expndtw-4 some of it.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li624\ri653\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\i\fs18 All are at one now, roses and lovers, \expndtw2 Not known of the winds and the fields and the sea. \expndtw1 Not a breath of the time that has been hovers \expndtw2 In the air now soft with a summer to be.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri67\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Well, yes. Kellon thought, they were all at one \i\scaps row, \i0\scaps0 the Bosses and the Jennies and the things they had done and the \expndtw3 things they had thought, ail at one now in the dust of this\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2362\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 old planet whose fiery final summer would be soon, very soon. \expndtw1 Physically, everything that had been done, everyone who had \expndtw3 lived, on Earth was still here in its atoms, excepting the tiny \expndtw5 fraction of its matter that had sped to other worlds.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 He thought of the names that were so famous still through all the galactic worlds, names of men and women and places. \expndtw3 Shakespeare, Plato, Beethoven, Blake, and the splendor of \expndtw2 Babylon and the bones of Angkor and the humble houses of \expndtw5 his own ancestors, all here, all still here.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Kellon mentally shook himself. He didn't have enough to \expndtw0 do, that was his trouble, to be brooding here on such shadowy \expndtw1 things. He had seen all there was to this queer little old place, \expndtw4 and there was no use in coming back to it.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 But he came back. It was not, he told himself, as though \expndtw8 he had any sentimental antiquarian interests in this old \expndtw2 place. He had heard enough of that kind of gush from all the \expndtw4 glittering phonies in the ship. He was a Survey man and all \expndtw2 he wanted was to get back to his job, but while he was stuck \expndtw4 here it was better to be roaming the green land or poking \expndtw3 about this old relic than to have to listen to the endless bab\-\expndtw4 bling and quarreling of those others.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 They were quarreling more and more, because they were tired of it here. It had seemed to them a fine thing to posture \expndtw3 upon a galactic stage by helping to cover the end of Earth, but time dragged by and their flush of synthetic enthusiasm \expndtw2 wore thin. They could not leave, the expedition must broad\-\expndtw5 cast the final climax of the planet's end, but that was still \expndtw4 weeks away. Darnow and his scholars and scientists, busy \expndtw2 coming and going to many old sites, could have stayed here \expndtw4 forever but the others were frankly bored.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 But Kellon found in the old house enough interest to keep \expndtw4 the waiting from being too oppressive. He had read a good \expndtw3 bit now about the way things had been here in the good old \expndtw4 days, and he sat long hours on the little terrace in the after\-\expndtw2 noon sunshine, trying to imagine what it had been like when \expndtw3 the man and woman named Ross and Jennie had lived here.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 So strange, so circumscribed, that old life seemed now! \expndtw1 Most people had had ground-cars in those days, he had read, \expndtw2 and had gone back and forth in them to the cities where they \expndtw3 worked. Did both the man and woman go, or just the man? \expndtw1 Did the woman stay in the house, perhaps with their children \expndtw5 if they had any, and in the afternoons did she do things in \expndtw2 the little flower garden where a few bright, ragged survivors \expndtw8 still bloomed? Did they ever dream that some future day\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2357\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li67\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 when they were long gone, their house would lie empty and \expndtw2 silent with no visitor except a stranger from far-off stars? He remembered a line in one of the old plays the Arcturus Play\-\expndtw3 ers had read. "Come like shadows, so depart."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 No, Kellon thought, Ross and Jennie were shadows now \expndtw5 but they had not been then. To them, and to all the other \expndtw2 people he could visualize going and coming busily about the \expndtw8 Earth in those days, it was he, the future, the man yet to \expndtw2 come, who was the shadow. Alone here, sitting and trying to imagine the long ago, Kellon had an eerie feeling sometimes \expndtw3 that his vivid imaginings of people and crowded cities and \expndtw4 movement and laughter were the reality and that he himself \expndtw5 was only a watching wraith.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\ri29\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Summer days came swiftly, hot and hotter. Now the white \expndtw5 sun was larger in the heavens and pouring down such light \expndtw3 and heat as Earth had not received for millennia. And all the \expndtw2 green life across it seemed to respond with an exultant surge \expndtw0 of final growth, an act of joyous affirmation that Kellon found \expndtw2 infinitely touching. Now even the nights were warm, and the \expndtw0 winds blew thrilling soft, and on the distant beaches the ocean \expndtw6 leaped up in a laughter of spray and thunder, running in \expndtw4 great solar tides.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 With a shock as though awakened from dreaming, Kellon \expndtw3 suddenly realized that only a few days were left. The spiral \expndtw5 was closing in fast now and very quickly the heat would \expndtw4 mount beyond all tolerance.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 He would, he told himself, be very glad to leave. There \expndtw4 would be the wait in space until it was all over, and then he \expndtw1 could go back to his own work, his own life, and stop fussing \expndtw3 over shadows because there was nothing else to do.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Yes. He would be glad.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi96\li19\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Then when only a few days were left, Kellon walked out again to the old house and was musing over it when a voice \expndtw3 spoke behind him. \expndtw1  "Perfect," said Borrodale's voice. "A perfect relic."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Kellon turned, feeling somehow startled and dismayed. \expndtw2 Borrodale's eyes were alight with interest as he surveyed the \expndtw5 house, and then he turned to Kellon.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "I was walking when I saw you, Captain, and thought I'd \expndtw3 catch up to you. Is this where you've been going so often?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Kellon, a little guiltily, evaded. "I've been here a few \expndtw4 times."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2117\li2362\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "But why in the world didn't you \i tell \i0 us about this?" ex-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 claimed Borrodale. "Why, we can \i do a \i0 terrific final broadcast \expndtw-1 from here. A typical ancient home of Earth. Roy can put some \expndtw0 of the Players in the old costumes, and we'll show them living \expndtw2 here the way people did-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Unexpectedly to himself, a violent reaction came up in Kellon. He said roughly,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4 "No."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Borrodale arched his eyebrows. "No?-But why not?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Why not, indeed? What difference could it possibly make \expndtw5 to him if they swarmed all over the old house, laughing at \expndtw3 its ancientness and its inadequacies, posing grinning for the cameras in front of it, prancing about in old-fashioned cos\-\expndtw6 tumes and making a show of it. What could that mean to \expndtw4 him, who cared nothing about this forgotten planet or any\-thing on it?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 And yet something in him revolted at what they would do \expndtw4 here, and he said,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "We might have to take off very suddenly, now. Having \expndtw-1 you all out here away from the ship could involve a dangerous \expndtw1 delay."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2 "You said yourself we wouldn't take off for a few days yet!" \expndtw-1 exclaimed Borrodale. And he added firmly, "I don't know why \expndtw3 you should want to obstruct us, Captain. But I can go over \expndtw5 your head to higher authority."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 He went away, and Kellon thought unhappily, He'll mes\-\expndtw2 sage back to Survey headquarters and I'll get my ears burned \expndtw3 off, and why the devil did I do it anyway? I must be getting \expndtw4 real planet-happy.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 He went and sat down on the terrace, and watched until \expndtw2 the sunset deepened into dusk. The moon came up white and \expndtw4 brilliant, but the air was not quiet tonight. A hot, dry wind had begun to blow, and the stir of the tall grass made the \expndtw5 slopes and plains seem vaguely alive. It was as though a \expndtw3 queer pulse had come into the air and the ground, as the sun called its child homeward and Earth strained to answer. The \expndtw5 house dreamed in the silver light, and the flowers in the \expndtw4 garden rustled.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Borrodale came back, a dark pudgy figure in the moon\-\expndtw5 light. He said triumphantly,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "I got through to your headquarters. They've ordered your full cooperation. We'll want to make our first broadcast here \expndtw0 tomorrow."\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li235\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Kellon stood up. "No."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2107\li2342\ri2304\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "You can't ignore an order-" \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li67\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "We won't be here tomorrow," said Kellon. "It is my re\-\expndtw-3 sponsibility to get the ship off Earth in ample time for safety. \expndtw0 We take off in the morning."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li67\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Borrodale was silent for a moment, and when he spoke his \expndtw-2 voice had \i a \i0 puzzled quality.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "You're advancing things just to block our broadcast, of \expndtw2 course. I just can't understand your attitude."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li58\ri29\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Well, Keilon thought, he couldn't quite understand it him\-\expndtw0 self, so how could he explain it? He remained silent, and Borrodale looked at him and then at the old house.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li48\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Yet maybe I do understand," Borrodale said thoughtfully, \expndtw-4 after a moment. "You've come here often, by yourself. A man \expndtw-1 can get too friendly with ghosts-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li43\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Kellon said roughly, "Don't talk nonsense. We'd better get \expndtw0 back to the ship, there's plenty to do before takeoff."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li53\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 Borrodale did not speak as they went back out of the moon\-\expndtw-4 lit valley. He looked back once, but Kellon did not look back.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri29\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 They took the ship off twelve hours later, in a morning \expndtw-2 made dull and ominous by racing clouds. Kellon felt a sharp \expndtw1 relief when they cleared atmosphere and were out in the \expndtw-3 depthless, starry blackness. He knew where he was, in space. \expndtw-2 It was the place where a spaceman belonged. He'd get a stiff \expndtw1 reprimand for this later, but he was not sorry.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 They put the ship into a calculated orbit, and waited. Days, \expndtw1 many of them, must pass before the end came to Earth. It \expndtw0 seemed quite near the white sun now, and its moon had slid away from it on a new distorted orbit, but even so it would \expndtw-2 be a while before they could broadcast to a watching galaxy \expndtw1 the end of its ancestral world.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Kellon stayed much of that time in his cabin. The gush \expndtw1 that was going out over the broadcasts now, as the grand \expndtw-4 finale approached, made him sick. He wished the whole thing \expndtw0 was over. It was, he told himself, getting to be a bore-\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 An hour and twenty minutes to E-time, and he supposed \expndtw-2 he must go up to the bridge and watch it. The mobile camera \expndtw0 had been set up there and Borrodale and as many others of \expndtw-3 them as could crowd in were there. Borrodale had been given \expndtw2 the last hour's broadcast, and it seemed that the others re\-\expndtw0 sented this.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Why must you have the whole last hour?" Lorri Lee was \expndtw1 saying bitterly to Borrodale. "It's not fair."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri86\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Quayle nodded angrily. "There'll be the biggest audience \expndtw1 in history, and we should all have a chance to speak."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2362\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Borrodale answered them, and the voices rose and bick\-ered, and Kellon saw the broadcast technicians looking wor\-\expndtw-4 ried. Beyond them through the filter-window he could see the \expndtw1 dark dot of the planet closing on the white star. The sun called, and it seemed that with quickened eagerness Earth \expndtw-2 moved on the last steps of its long road. And the clamoring, \expndtw-3 bickering voices in his ears suddenly brought rage to Kellon.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Listen," he said to the broadcast men. "Shut off all sound \expndtw0 transmission. You can keep the picture on, but no sound."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 That shocked them all into silence. The Lee woman finally \expndtw-1 protested, "Captain Kellon, you can't!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I'm in full command when in space, and I can, and do," \expndtw-2 he said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "But the broadcast, the commentary-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Kellon said wearily, "Oh, for Christ's sake all of you shut \expndtw1 up, and let the planet die in peace."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\tx4162\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 He turned his back on them. He did not hear their resentful\line\expndtw-1 voices, did not even hear when they fell silent and watched\line\expndtw0 through the dark filter-windows as he was watching, as the\line\expndtw-1 camera and the galaxy was watching.\expndtw0\tab '\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 And what was there to see but a dark dot almost engulfed \expndtw-1 in the shining veils of the Sun? The thought that already the stones of the old house must be beginning to vaporize. And \expndtw0 now the veils of light and fire almost concealed the little \expndtw2 planet, as the star gathered in its own.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri14\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 All the atoms of old Earth, Kellon thought, in this moment bursting free to mingle with the solar being, all that had been Ross and Jennie, all that had been Shakespeare and Schubert, \expndtw-1 gay flowers and running streams, oceans and rocks and the \expndtw0 wind of the air, received into the brightness that had given \expndtw-1 them life.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri14\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 They watched in silence, but there was nothing more to \expndtw1 see, nothing at all. Silently the camera was turned off.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Kellon gave an order, and presently the ship was pulling \expndtw0 out of orbit, starting on the long voyage back. By that time \expndtw-2 the others had gone, all but Borrodale. He said to Borrodale, \expndtw2 without turning,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Now go ahead and send your complaint to headquarters."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri29\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 Borrodale shook his head. "Silence can be the best requiem \expndtw-1 of all. There'll be no complaint. I'm glad now, Captain."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sb5\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "Glad?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri29\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Yes," said Borrodale. "I'm glad that Earth had one true \expndtw2 mourner, at the last."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2352\sb101\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs32 At the Core\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2232\sb53\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\sb48\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs26 LARRY NIVEN\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\sb456\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 I couldn't decide whether to call it a painting, a relief mural, a sculpture, or a hash; but it was the prize exhibit in the Art \expndtw-2 Section of the Institute of Knowledge on Jinx, The Kdatlyno \expndtw-1 must have strange eyes, I thought. My own were watering. \expndtw-4 The longer I looked at "FTLSPACE," the more blurred it got.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 I'd tentatively decided that it was \i supposed \i0 to look blurred \expndtw-6 when a set of toothy jaws clamped gently on my arm. I jumped \expndtw-1 a foot in the air. A soft, thrilling contralto voice said, "Beo\-\expndtw0 wulf Shaeffer, you are a spendthrift."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 That voice would have made a singer's fortune. And I \expndtw-1 thought I recognized it-but it couldn't be; \i that \i0 one was on \expndtw1 We Made It, light-years distant. I turned.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li29\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The puppeteer had released my arm. It went \scaps ob: \scaps0 "And \expndtw-1 what do you think of Hrodenu?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "He's ruining my eyes."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Naturally. The Kdatlyno are blind to all but radar. 'F\expndtw-1 TLSPACE' is not meant to be seen but to be touched. Run \expndtw0 your tongue over it."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "My tongue? No, thanks." I tried running my hand over \expndtw-1 it. If you want to know what it felt like, hop a ship for Jinx; \expndtw-3 the thing's still there. I flatly refuse to describe the sensation.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The puppeteer cocked its head dubiously. "I'm sure your \expndtw0 tongue is more sensitive. No guards are nearby."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri34\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Forget it. You know, you sound just like the regional president of General Products on We Made It."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri29\sb10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "It was he who sent me your dossier, Beowulf Shaeffer. No \expndtw1 doubt we had the same English teacher, I am the regional \expndtw-6 president on Jinx, as you no doubt recognized from my mane,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sb5\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Well, not quite. The auburn mop over the brain case be\-\expndtw-4 tween the two necks is supposed to show caste once you learn \expndtw-1 to discount variations of mere style. To do that, you have to\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2362\sl-206\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 be a puppeteer. Instead of admitting my ignorance, I asked, \expndtw5 "Did that dossier.say I was a spendthrift?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "You have spent more than a million stars in the past four years."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "And loved it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Yes. You will shortly be in debt again. Have you thought \expndtw2 of doing more writing? I admired your article on the neutron \expndtw3 star BVS-1. 'The pointy bottom of a gravity well...' 'Blue \expndtw6 starlight fell on me like intangible sleet...' Lovely."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri10\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Thanks. It paid well, too. But I'm mainly a spaceship \expndtw1 pilot."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "It is fortunate, our meeting here. I had thought of having \expndtw1 you found. Do you wish a job?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\i That \i0 was a loaded question. The last and only time I took \expndtw5 a job from a puppeteer, the puppeteer blackmailed me into \expndtw2 it, knowing it would probably kill me. It almost did. I didn't \expndtw5 hold that against the regional president of We Made It, but \expndtw4 to let them have another crack at me-? "I'll give you a \expndtw1 conditional 'Maybe.' Do you have the idea I'm a professional suicide pilot?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri24\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Not at all. If I show details, do you agree that the infor\-\expndtw4 mation shall be confidential?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri29\sb5\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "I do," I said formally, knowing it would commit me. A \expndtw5 verbal contract is as binding as the tape it's recorded on.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Good. Come." He pranced toward a transfer booth.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri34\sb197\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 The transfer booth let us out somewhere in Jinx's vacuum \expndtw4 regions. It was night. High in the sky, Sirius B was a pain\-\expndtw0 fully bright pinpoint casting vivid blue moonlight on a ragged \expndtw4 lunar landscape. I looked up and didn't see Binary, Jinx's \expndtw3 bloated orange companion planet, so we must have been in \expndtw5 the Farside End.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 But there was something hanging over us.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri34\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 A No. 4 General Products hull is a transparent sphere a \expndtw2 thousand-odd feet in diameter. No bigger ship has been built anywhere in the known galaxy. It takes a government to buy \expndtw1 one, and they are used for colonization projects only. But this one could never have been so used; it was all machinery. Our \expndtw2 transfer booth stood between two of the landing legs, so that the swelling flank of the ship looked down on us as an owl looks down at a mouse. An access tube ran through the vac\-\expndtw4 uum from the booth to the airlock.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2352\sb307\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 I said, "Does General Products build complete spacecraft \expndtw0 nowadays?"\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li62\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "We are thinking of branching out. But there are prob\-\expndtw-1 lems."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 From the viewpoint of the puppeteer-owned company, it \expndtw5 must have seemed high time. General Products makes the \expndtw3 hulls for ninety-five percent of all ships in space, mainly because nobody else knows how to build an indestructible \expndtw6 hull. But they'd made a bad start with this ship. The only \expndtw3 room I could see for crew, cargo, or passengers was a few \expndtw5 cubic yards of empty space right at the bottom, just above \expndtw4 the airlock, and just big enough for a pilot.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "You'd have a' hard time selling that," I said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "True. Do you notice anything else?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li29\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 "Well..." The hardware that filled the transparent hull \expndtw3 was very tightly packed. The effect was as if a race of ten-mile-tall giants had striven to achieve miniaturization. I saw no sign of access tubes; hence there could be no m-space \expndtw2 repairs. Four reaction motors poked their appropriately huge \expndtw4 nostrils through the hull, angled outward from the bottom. \expndtw3 No small attitude jets; hence, oversized gyros inside. Oth\-\expndtw2 erwise ... "Most of it looks like hyperdrive motors. But that's \expndtw4 silly. Unless you've thought of a good reason for moving \expndtw2 moons around?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\ldblquote At one time you were a commercial pilot for Nakamura Lines. How long was the run from Jinx to We Made It?\rdblquote\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Twelve days if nothing broke down." Just long enough \expndtw3 to get to know the prettiest passenger aboard, while the au\-\expndtw4 topilot did everything for me but wear my uniform.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li24\ri34\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Sirius to Procyon is a distance of four light-years. Our \expndtw5 ship would make the trip in five minutes."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 "You've lost your mind."   \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2 "No."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 But that was almost a light-year per minute! I couldn't \expndtw3 visualize it. Then suddenly I did visualize it, and my mouth \expndtw2 fell open, for what I saw was the galaxy opening before me. \expndtw1 We know so little beyond our own small neighborhood of the \expndtw5 galaxy. But with a ship like that-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "That's goddam fast."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "As you say. But the equipment is bulky, as you note. It cost seven billion stars to build that ship, discounting cen\-\expndtw3 turies of research, but it will only move one man. As is, the \expndtw4 ship is a failure. Shall we go inside?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2357\sb307\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The lifesystem was two circular rooms, one above the \expndtw-2 other, with a small airlock to one side. The lower room was \expndtw-3 the control room, with banks of switches and dials and blink\-\expndtw-1 ing lights dominated by a huge spherical mass pointer. The \expndtw1 upper room was bare walls, transparent, through which I \expndtw-2 could see air- and food-producing equipment.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "This will be the relaxroom," said the puppeteer. "We de\-\expndtw0 cided to let the pilot decorate it himself."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "Why me?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Let me further explain the problem." The puppeteer be\-gan to pace the floor. I hunkered down against the wall and \expndtw-2 watched. Watching a puppeteer move is a pleasure. Even in \expndtw-1 Jinx's gravity the deerlike body seemed weightless, the tiny \expndtw5 hooves tapping the floor at random. "The human sphere \expndtw7 of colonization is some thirty light-years across, is it \expndtw-5 not?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Maximum. It's not exactly a sphere-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "The puppeteer region is much smaller. The Kdatlyno \expndtw-2 sphere is half the size of yours, and the Kzinti is fractionally \expndtw-1 larger. These are the important space-traveling species. We \expndtw-4 must discount the Outsiders since they do not use ships. Some \expndtw0 spheres coincide, naturally. Travel from one sphere to an\-\expndtw-1 other is nearly nil except for ourselves, since our sphere of influence extends to all who buy our hulls. But add all these regions, and you have a region sixty light-years across. This ship could cross it in seventy-five minutes. Allow six hours \expndtw1 for takeoff and six for landing, assuming no traffic snarls \expndtw-2 near the world of destination, and we have a ship which can \expndtw2 go anywhere in thirteen hours but nowhere in less than \expndtw-3 twelve, carrying one pilot and no cargo, costing seven billion \expndtw1 stars."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "How about exploration?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "We puppeteers have no taste for abstract knowledge. And \expndtw-1 how should we explore?" Meaning that whatever race flew \expndtw0 the ship would gain the advantages thereby. A puppeteer wouldn't risk his necks by flying it himself. "What we need \expndtw-1 is a great deal of money and a gathering of intelligences, to \expndtw1 design something which \i may go \i0 slower but \i must \i0 be less \expndtw-3 bulky. General Products (Joes not wish to spend so much on \expndtw1 something that may fail. We will require the best minds of\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2357\sl-202\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 each sentient species and the richest investors. Beowulf \expndtw1 Shaeffer, we need to attract attention."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li302\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "A publicity stunt?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li67\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Yes. We wish to send a pilot to the center of the galaxy and back."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Ye.. .gods! Will it go \i that \i0 fast?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li53\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "It would require some twenty-five days to reach the cen\-\expndtw1 ter and an equal time to-return. You can see the reasoning \expndtw-6 behind-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "It's perfect. You don't need to spell it out. Why me?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "We wish you to make the trip and then write of it. I have \expndtw-3 a list of pilots who write. Those I have approached have been \expndtw1 reluctant. They say that writing on the ground is safer than \expndtw0 testing unknown ships. I follow their reasoning."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "Me too."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "Will you go?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "What am I offered?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "One hundred thousand stars for the trip. Fifty thousand to write the story, in addition to what you sell it for."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "Sold."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri48\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 From then on, my only worry was that my new boss would \expndtw3 find out that someone had ghost-written that neutron star \expndtw-1 article.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li19\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Oh, I wondered at first why General Products was willing \expndtw0 to trust, me. The first time I worked for them I tried to steal \expndtw1 their ship, for reasons which seemed good at the time. But \expndtw-2 the ship I now called \i Long Shot \i0 really wasn't worth stealing.. Any potential buyer would know it was hot; and what good \expndtw-4 would it be to him? \i Long Shot \i0 could have explored a globular \expndtw1 cluster; but her only other use was publicity.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Sending her to the Core was a masterpiece of promotion.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Look: It was twelve days from We Made It to Jinx by \expndtw-1 conventional craft, and twelve hours by \i Long Shot. \i0 What's \expndtw0 the difference? You spent twelve years saving for the trip. But the Core! Ignoring refueling and reprovisioning prob\-\expndtw-1 lems, my old ship could have reached the galaxy's core in \expndtw0 three hundred years. No known species had ever \i seen \i0 the Core! It hid behind layer on layer of tenuous gas and dust clouds. You can find libraries of literature on those central \expndtw-3 stars, but they all consist of generalities and educated guesses \expndtw-1 based on observation of other galaxies, like Andromeda.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri86\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Three centuries dropped to less than a month! There's something anyone can grasp. And with pictures!\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2362\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The lifesystem was finished in a couple of weeks. I had \expndtw4 them leave the control-room walls transparent and paint the \expndtw1 relaxroom solid blue, no windows. When they finished, I had \expndtw7 entertainment tapes and everything it takes to keep a man \expndtw4 sane for seven weeks in a room the size of a large closet.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 On the last day the puppeteer and I spoke the final version of my contract. I had four months to reach the galaxy's center \expndtw2 and return. The outside cameras would run constantly; I was \expndtw3 not to interfere with them. Jf the ship suffered a mechanical failure, I could return before reaching the center; otherwise, \expndtw4 no. There were penalties. I took a copy of the tape to leave with a lawyer.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 "There is a thing you should know," the puppeteer said \expndtw5 afterward. "The direction of thrust opposes the direction of \expndtw3 hyperdrive." \expndtw4    "I don't get it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The puppeteer groped for words. "If you turned on the \expndtw6 reaction motors and the hyperdrive together, the flames \expndtw3 would precede your ship through hyperspace."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 I got the picture then. Ass backward into the unknown. \expndtw5 With the control room at the ship's bottom, it made sense. \expndtw4 To a puppeteer, it made sense.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri10\sb173\qc\cf1\lang1033 3\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033 And I was off.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li5\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 I went up under two standard gees because I like my com\-\expndtw3 fort. For twelve hours I used only the reaction motors. It wouldn't do to be too deep in a gravity well when 1 used a \expndtw4 hyperdrive, especially an experimental one. Pilots who do that never leave hyperspace. The relaxroom kept me enter\-\expndtw1 tained until the bell rang. I slipped down to the control room, \expndtw3 netted myself down against free fall, turned off the motors, \expndtw4 rubbed my hands briskly together, and turned on the hyper-\expndtw1 drive.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 It wasn't quite as I'd expected.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 I couldn't see out, of course. When the hyperdrive goes on, \expndtw1 it's like your blind spot expanding to take in all the windows, \expndtw7 It's not just that you don't see anything; you forget that \expndtw6 there's anything to see. If\i  \i0 there's a window between the \expndtw4 kitchen control bank and your print of Dali's "Spam," your \expndtw5 eye and mind will put the picture right next to the kitchen \expndtw6 bank, obliterating the space between. It takes getting ased \expndtw5 to, in fact it has driven people insane, but that wasn't what\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2371\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li77\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 bothered \i me. \i0 I've spent thousands of man-hours in hyper-\expndtw0 space. I kept my eye on the mass pointer.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi307\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The mass pointer is a big transparent sphere with a num\-\expndtw0 ber of blue lines radiating from the center. The direction of \expndtw1 the line is the direction of a star; its length shows the star's \expndtw-2 mass. We wouldn't need pilots if the mass pointer could be \expndtw0 hooked into an autopilot, but it can't. Dependable as it is, \expndtw-2 accurate as it is, the mass pointer is a psionic device. It needs \expndtw0 a mind to work it. I'd been using mass pointers for so long \expndtw2 that those lines were like real stars.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li58\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 A star came toward me, and I dodged around it. I thought \expndtw2 that another line that didn't point \i quite \i0 straight ahead was \expndtw-1 long enough to show dangerous mass, so I dodged. That put \expndtw1 a blue dwarf right in front of me. I shifted fast and looked \expndtw0 for a throttle. I wanted to slow down.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Repeat, \i I\i0  \i wanted to slow down.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Of course there was no throttle. Part of the puppeteer \expndtw-2 research project would be designing a throttle. A long fuzzy \expndtw2 line reached for me: a protosun-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li38\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Put it this way: Imagine one of Earth's freeways. You \expndtw-4 must have seen pictures of them from space, a tangle of twist\-\expndtw0 ing concrete ribbons, empty and abandoned but never torn \expndtw-3 down. Some lie broken; others are covered with houses. Peo\-\expndtw-2 ple use the later rubberized ones for horseback riding. Imag\-ine the way one of these must have looked about six o'clock \expndtw-1 on a week night in, say, nineteen seventy. Groundcars from end to end.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li24\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Now, let's take all those cars and remove the brakes. Fur\-ther, let's put governors on the accelerators, so that the max\-\expndtw-3 imum speeds are between sixty and seventy miles per hour, \expndtw0 not all the same. Let something go wrong with all the gov\-\expndtw-1 ernors at once, so that the maximum speed also becomes the minimum. You'll begin to see signs of panic.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Eeady? Okay. Get a radar installed in your car, paint your \expndtw-1 windshield and windows jet black, and get out on that free\-\expndtw-9 way.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 It was like that.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri62\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 It didn't seem so bad at first. The stars kept coming at me, \expndtw2 and I kept dodging, and after a while it settled down to a \expndtw0 kind of routine. From experience I could tell at a glance \expndtw-2 whether a star was heavy enough and close enough to wreck \expndtw0 me. But in Nakamura Lines I'd only had to take that glance \expndtw-3 every six hours or so. Here I didn't dare look away. As I grew\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 tired, the near-misses came closer and closer. After three hours of it I had to drop out.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The stars had a subtly unfamiliar look. With a sudden jar \expndtw1 I realized that I was entirely out of known space. Sirius, \expndtw-2 Antares-I'd never recognize them from here; I wasn't even \expndtw-1 sure they were visible. I shook it off and called home.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\i\fs21 "Long Shot \i0 calling General Products, \i Long Shot \i0 call\-\expndtw-9 ing-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "Beowulf Shaeffer?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "Have I ever told you what a lovely, sexy voice you have?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "No. Is everything going well?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I'm afraid not. In fact, I'm not going to make it."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 A pause. "Why not?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I can't keep dodging these stars forever. One of them's \expndtw-2 going to get me if I keep on much longer. The ship's just too \expndtw-3 goddam fast."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Yes. We must design a slower ship."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I hate to give up that good pay, but my eyes feel like peeled onions. I ache all over. I'm turning back."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Shall I play your contract for you?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "No. Why?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri14\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Your only legal reason for returning is a mechanical fail\-\expndtw-1 ure. Otherwise you forfeit twice your pay."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri14\sl-206\slmult0\qj\tlul\tx3557\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 I said, "Mechanical failure?" There was a tool box some\-\expndtw1 where in the ship, with a hammer in it....\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri14\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I did not mention it before, since it did not seem polite, \expndtw-2 but two of the cameras are in the lifesystem. We had thought to use films of you for purposes of publicity, but-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri29\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "I see. Tell me one thing, just one thing. When the regional \expndtw-2 president of We Made It sent you my name, did he mention \expndtw0 that I'd discovered your planet has no moon?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "Yes, he did mention that matter. You accepted one million \expndtw0 stars for your silence. He naturally has a recording of the \expndtw1 bargain."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "I see." So that's why they'd picked Beowulf Shaeffer, well-\expndtw2 known author. "The trip'll take longer than I thought."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri29\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You must pay a penalty for every extra day over four \expndtw1 months. Two thousand stars per day late."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri43\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Your voice has acquired an unpleasant grating sound. \expndtw-9 Good-bye."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri34\sb202\sl-211\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 I went on in. Every hour I shifted to normal space for a \expndtw6 ten-minute coffee break. I dropped out for meals, and I\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2362\sb106\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\ri5\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 dropped out for sleep. Twelve hours per ship's day I spent \expndtw-3 traveling, and twelve trying to recover. It was a losing battle.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri5\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 By the end of day two I knew I wasn't going to make the \expndtw-2 four-month limit. I might do it in six months, forfeiting one \expndtw4 hundred and twenty thousand stars, leaving me almost \expndtw1 where I started. Serve me right for trusting a puppeteer!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri10\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Stars were all around me, shining through the floor and \expndtw-1 between the banked instruments. I sucked coffee, trying not \expndtw-3 to think. The milky way shone ghostly pale between my feet. \expndtw-1 The stars were thick now; they'd get thicker as I approached \expndtw0 the Core, until finally one got me.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 An idea! And about time, too.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li38\ri19\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The golden voice answered immediately. "Beowulf Shaef-\expndtw-8 fer?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "There's nobody else here, honey. Look, I've thought of \expndtw-3 something. Would you send-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li34\ri5\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 ''Is one of your instruments malfunctioning, Beowulf \expndtw-4 Shaeffer?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "No, they all work fine, as far as they go. Look-\i "\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li29\ri34\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Then what could you possibly have to say that would \expndtw1 require my attention?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri38\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Honey, now is the time to decide. Do you want revenge, \expndtw-1 or do you want your ship back?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 A small silence. Then, "You may speak."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri10\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I can reach the Core much faster if I first get into one of \expndtw-2 the spaces between the arms. Do we know enough about the \expndtw0 galaxy to know where our arm ends?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I will send to the Institute of Knowledge to find out."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-9\fs21 "Good."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri38\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Four hours later I was dragged from a deathlike sleep by the ringing of the hyperphone. It was not the president, but some flunky, I remembered calling the puppeteer "honey" \expndtw-1 last night, tricked by my own exhaustion and that seductive \expndtw-2 voice, and wondered if I'd\b  \b0 hurt his puppeteer feelings. "He" \expndtw1 might be a male; a puppeteer's is one of his little \i secrets. \i0 The flunky gave me a bearing and distance for the nearest \expndtw0 gap between stars.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri34\sb5\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 It took me another day to get there. When the stars began to thin out, I could hardly believe it. I turned off the hyper-\expndtw1 drive, and it was true. The stars were tens and hundreds of li\expndtw0 ght-years apart. I could see part of the Core peeking in a \expndtw-1 bright rim above the dim flat cloud of mixed dust and stars.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2352\sl-206\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li115\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 From then on, it was better, f was safe if I glanced at the \expndtw-1 mass pointer every ten minutes or so. I could forget the rest \expndtw-4 breaks, eat meals and do isometrics while watching the point\-\expndtw-2 ers. For eight hours a day I slept, but during the other sixteen \expndtw1 I moved. The gap swept toward the Core in a narrowing \expndtw-2 curve, and I followed it.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li106\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 As a voyage of exploration the trip would have been a \expndtw-4 fiasco. I saw nothing. I stayed well away from anything worth \expndtw0 seeing. Stars and dust, anomalous wispy clusters shining in \expndtw2 the dark of the gap, invisible indications that might have \expndtw-1 been stars-my cameras picked them up from a nice safe \expndtw-3 distance, showing tiny blobs of light. In three weeks I moved \expndtw1 almost seventeen thousand light-years toward the Core.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li101\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The end of those three weeks was the end of the gap. \expndtw0 Before me was an uninteresting wash of stars backed by a \expndtw-3 wall of opaque dust clouds. I still had thirteen thousand light-\expndtw0 years to go before I reached the center of the galaxy.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li341\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 I took some pictures and moved in.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li96\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\fs21 Ten-minute breaks, mealtimes that grew longer and \expndtw-1 longer for the rest they gave, sleep periods that left my eyes \expndtw3 red and burning. The stars were thick and the dust was \expndtw-3 thicker, so that the mass pointer showed a blur of blue broken \expndtw-1 by sharp blue lines. The lines began to get less sharp. I took \expndtw4 breaks every half hour-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li331\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Three days of that.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi331\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 It was getting near lunchtime on the fourth day. I sat watching the mass pointer, noting the fluctuations in the \expndtw0 blue blur which showed the changing density of the dust \expndtw-4 around me. Suddenly it faded out completely. Great! Wouldn't \expndtw1 it be nice if the mass pointer went out on me? But the sharp \expndtw0 " starlines were still there, ten or twenty of them pointing in all directions. I went back to steering. The clock chimed to \expndtw-1 indicate a rest period. I sighed happily and dropped into nor\-\expndtw-2 mal space.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li77\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The clock showed I had half an hour to wait for lunch, i thought about eating anyway, decided againsf it. The routine was all that kept me going. I wondered what the sky looked \expndtw-1 like, reflexively looked up so I wouldn't have to look down \expndtw1 at the transparent floor. That big an expanse of hyperspace \expndtw-1 is hard even on trained eyes. I remembered I wasn't in hy\-\expndtw-3 perspace and looked down.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2434\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li62\sb10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 For a time I jus? stared. Then, without taking my eyes off \expndtw-1 the floor, I reached for the hyperphone,-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Beowulf Shaeffer?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li58\ri19\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "No, this is Albert Einstein. I stowed away when the \i Long \expndtw-1 Shot \i0 took off, and I've decided to turn myself in for the re\-\expndtw-4 ward."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Giving misinformation is an implicit violation of con\-tract. Why have you called?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I can see the Core;"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "That is not a reason to call. It was implicit in your eon-\expndtw1 tract that you would see the Core."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li48\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Dammit, don't you care? Don't you want to know what \expndtw-2 it looks like?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "If you wish to describe it now, as a precaution against \expndtw-2 accident, I will switch you to a dictaphone. However, if your mission is not totally successful, we cannot use your record\-\expndtw-5 ing."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri48\sb182\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 I was thinking up a really searing answer when I heard \expndtw0 the click. Great, my boss had hooked me into a dictaphone. \expndtw1 I said one short sentence and hung up.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The Core.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri48\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Gone were the obscuring masses of dust and gas. A billion \expndtw-2 years ago they must have been swept up for fuel by the hun\-\expndtw-1 gry, crowded stars. The Core lay before me like a great jew\-\expndtw2 eled sphere. I'd expected it to be a gradual thing, a thick \expndtw0 mass of stars thinning out into the arms. There was nothing \expndtw-2 gradual about it. A clear ball of multicolored light five or six \expndtw-3 thousand light-years across nestled in the heart of the galaxy, \expndtw2 sharply bounded by the last of the dust clouds. I was ten \expndtw1 thousand four hundred light-years from the center.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri53\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The red stars were the biggest and brightest. I could ac\-tually pick some of them out as individuals. The rest was a finger painting in fluorescent green and blue. But those red \expndtw1 stars...they would have sent Aldebaran back to kindergar\-\expndtw-3 ten.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li14\ri72\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 It was all so \i bright. \i0 I needed the telescope to see black \expndtw1 between the stars.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 I'll \i show \i0 you how bright it was.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri67\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Is it night where you are? Step outside and look at the stars. What color are they? Antares may show red, if your \expndtw-1 near enough; in the System, so will Mars. Sirius may ahow \expndtw2 bluish. But all the rest are white pinpoints. Why? Because\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2357\sl-206\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 it's \i dark. \i0 Your day vision is in color, but at night you see \expndtw3 black-and-white, like a dog.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 The Core suns were bright enough for color vision.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li24\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 I'd pick a planet here! Not in the Core itself, but right out \expndtw4 here, with the Core on one side and on the other the dimly \expndtw2 starred dust clouds forming their strange convoluted curtain. \expndtw3 Man, what a view! Imagine that flaming jeweled sphere ris\-ing in the east, hundreds of times as big as Binary shows on \expndtw4 Jinx; but without the constant feeling Binary gives you, the fear that the orange world will fall on you; for the vast, \expndtw1 twinkling Core is only starlight, lovely and harmless. I'd pick \expndtw3 my world \i now \i0 and stake a claim. When the puppeteers got \expndtw6 their drive fixed up, I'd have the finest piece of real estate \expndtw1 in the known universe! If I could only find a habitable planet.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 If only I could find it twice.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Hell, I'd be lucky to find my way \i home \i0 from here. I shifted \expndtw4 into hyperspace and went back to work.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri14\sb168\qc\cf1\lang1033\fs21 5\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri34\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 An hour and fifty minutes, one lunch break and two rest \expndtw0 breaks, and fifty light-years later, I noticed something pe\-\expndtw1 culiar in the Core,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 It was even clearer then, if not much bigger; I'd passed \expndtw0 through the almost transparent wisps of the last dust cloud. Not too near the center of the sphere was a patch of white, \expndtw-1 bright enough to make the green and blue and red look dull \expndtw1 around it. I looked for it again at the neyt break, and it was \expndtw4 a little brighter. It was brighter again at the next break-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "Beowulf Shaeffer?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "Yah. I-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Why did you use the dictaphone to call me a cowardly two-headed monster?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "You were off the line. I \i had \i0 to use the dictaphone."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "That is sensible. Yes. We puppeteers have never under\-stood your attitude toward a natural caution." My boss was peeved, though you couldn't tell from his voice.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "I'll go into that if you like, but it's not why I called."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Explain, please."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I'm all for caution. Discretion is the better part of valor, \expndtw0 and like that. You can even be good businessmen, because \expndtw-1 it's easier to survive with lots of money. But you're so damn \expndtw-3 concerned with various kinds of survival that you aren't even \expndtw6 interested in something that isn't a threat. Nobody but a\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2357\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 puppeteer would have turned down my offer to describe the \expndtw-6 Core."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "You forget the Kzinti,"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Oh, the Kzinti." Who expects rational behavior from \expndtw-1 Kzinti? You whip them when they attack; you reluctantly \expndtw0 decide not to exterminate them; you wait till they build up \expndtw1 their strength; and when they attack, you whip 'em again. \expndtw-3 Meanwhile you sell them foodstuffs and buy their metals and \expndtw-1 employ them where you need good games theorists. It's not \expndtw1 as if they were a real threat. They'll \i always \i0 attack before they're ready.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li34\ri10\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "The Kzinti are carnivores. Where we are interested in \expndtw-1 survival, carnivores are interested in meat alone. They con\-\expndtw-5 quer because subject peoples can supply them with food, They \expndtw-1 cannot do menial work. Animal husbandry is alien to them. \expndtw0 They must have slaves or be barbarians roaming the forests for meat. Why should they be interested in what you call abstract knowledge? Why should any thinking being, if the \expndtw-1 knowledge has no chance of showing a profit? In practice, \expndtw-4 your description Of the Core would attract only an omnivore."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "You'd make a good case if it were not for the fact that most sentient races are omnivores."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "We have thought long and hard on that."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Ye cats. I was going to have to think long and hard on \expndtw-5\i that.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Why did you call, Beowulf Shaeffer?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Oh, yeah, "Look, I know you don't want to know what the \expndtw0 Core looks like, but I see something that might represent \expndtw-3 personal danger. You have access to information I don't. May \expndtw-5 I proceed?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "You may,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Hah! I was learning to think like a puppeteer. Was that good? I told my boss about the blazing, strangely shaped \expndtw0 white patch in the Core. "When I turned the telescope en it, it nearly blinded me. Grade two sunglasses don't give any \expndtw1 details at all. It's just a shapeless white patch, but so bright \expndtw-1 that the stare m front look like black dots with colored rims, \expndtw1 I'd like to know what's causing it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "It sounds very unusual," Pause. 'Is the white color uni\-\expndtw0 form? Is the brightness uniform?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Just a sec." I used the scope again. "The color is, but the \expndtw0 brightness isn't. I see dimmer areas inside the patch, I think \expndtw1 the center is fading out."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2371\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li43\ri19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Use the telescope to find a nova star. There ought to be \expndtw5 several in such a large mass of stars."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 I tried it. Presently I found something: a blazing disk of \expndtw1 a peculiar blue-white color with a dimmer, somewhat smaller \expndtw2 red disk half in front of it. That \i had \i0 to be a nova. In the core \expndtw1 of Andromeda galaxy, and in what I'd seen of our own Core, \expndtw6 the red stars were the biggest and brightest.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "I've found one."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Comment."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 A moment more and I saw what he meant. "It's the same color as the patch. Something like the same brightness, too. \expndtw5 But what could make a patch of supernovas go off all at \expndtw-4 once?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\li10\ri29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "You have studied the Core. The stars of the Core are an \expndtw3 average of half a light-year apart. They are even closer near \expndtw4 the center, and no dust clouds dim their brightness. When stars are that close, they shed enough light on each other to \expndtw6 increase materially each other's temperature. Stars burn faster and age faster in the Core."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "I see that,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li19\ri34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "Since the Core stars age faster, a much greater portion are near the supernova stage than in the arms. Also, all are \expndtw3 hotter considering their respective ages. If a star were a few \expndtw4 millennia from the supernova stage, and a supernova ex\-\expndtw5 ploded half a light-year away, estimate the probabilities."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri53\sl-202\slmult0\qj\tlul\tx3634\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "They might both blow. Then the two could set off a third, \expndtw5 and the three might take a couple more....\expndtw0 "\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri43\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Yes. Since a supernova lasts-on the order of one human \expndtw3 standard year, the chain reaction would soon die out. Your \expndtw5 patch of light must have occurred in this way."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri48\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "That's a relief. Knowing what did it, I mean. I'll take \expndtw3 pictures going in,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "As you say." Click.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri48\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The patch kept expanding as I went in, still with no more \expndtw7 shape than a veil nebula, getting brighter and bigger. It \expndtw4 hardly seemed fair, what I was doing. The light which the \expndtw3 patch novas had taken fifty years to put out, I covered in an hour, moving down the beam at a speed which made the \expndtw7 universe itself seem unreal. At the fourth rest period I \expndtw3 dropped out of hyperspace, looked down through the floor \expndtw1 while the cameras took their pictures, glanced away from the \expndtw2 patch for a moment, and found myself blinded by tangerine \expndtw5 afterimages. I had to put on a pair of grade one sunglasses,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2366\sl-202\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li72\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5 out of the packet of twenty which every pilot carries for work\-\expndtw1 ing near suns during takeoff and landing.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 It made me shiver to think that the patch was stil! nearly ten thousand light-years away. Already the radiation must \expndtw1 have killed all life in the Core if there ever had been life there. My instruments on the hull showed radiation like a \expndtw0 solar flare.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li43\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3 At the next stop I needed grade two sunglasses. Somewhat \expndtw3 later, grade three. Then four. The patch became a great \expndtw-2 bright amoeba reaching twisting tentacles of fusion fire deep \expndtw-4 into the vitals of the Core. In hyperspace the sky was jammed \expndtw-1 bumper to bumper, so to speak, but I never thought of stop\-\expndtw-3 ping. As the Core came closer, the patch grew like something \expndtw1 alive, something needing ever more food. I think I knew, \expndtw0 even then.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2 Night came. The control room was a blaze of light. I slept \expndtw2 in the relaxroom, to the tune of the laboring temperature \expndtw-1 control. Morning, and I was off again. The radiation meter \expndtw0 snarled its death-song, louder during each rest break. If I'd \expndtw-3 been planning to go outside, J would have dropped that plan. \expndtw0 Radiation Couldn't get through a General Products hull. Nothing else can, either, except visible light.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 I spent a bad half hour trying to remember whether one \expndtw-2 of the puppeteers' customers saw X-rays. I was afraid to call \expndtw0 up and ask.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li29\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 The mass pointer began to show a faint blue blur. Gases thrown outward from the patch. I had to keep changing sun\-\expndtw0 glasses. .,.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Sometime during the morning of the next day I stopped. \expndtw1 There was no point in going farther.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri53\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5 "Beowulf Shaeffer, have you become attached to the sound \expndtw-2 of my voice? I have other work than supervising your prog\-\expndtw-1 ress."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 "I would like to deliver a lecture on abstract knowledge,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Surely it can wait until your return."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2 "The galaxy is exploding."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033 There was a strange noise. Then: "Repeat, please."\cf0\lang2057\par
\cf1\lang1033 "Have I got your attention?"\cf0\lang2057\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6 "Yes."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 "Good. I think I know the reason so many sentient races are omnivores. Interest in abstract knowledge is a symptom \expndtw1 of pure curiosity. Curiosity must be a survival trait."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2122\li2362\ri82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4 "Must we discuss this? Very well. You may well be right. \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li96\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 Others have made the same suggestion, including puppe\-\expndtw1 teers. But how has our species survived at all?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li91\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You must have some substitute for curiosity. Increased \expndtw-2 intelligence, maybe. You've been around long enough to de\-velop it. Our hands can't compare with your mouths for tool-\expndtw0 building. If a watchmaker had taste and smell in his hands, \expndtw-4 he still wouldn't have the strength of your jaws or the delicacy \expndtw-1 of those knobs around your lips. When I want to know how \expndtw1 old a sentient race is, I watch what he uses for hands and \expndtw-3 feet."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li91\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Yes. Human feet are still adapting to their task of keep\-ing you erect. You propose, then, that our intelligence has \expndtw-1 grown sufficiently to ensure our survival without depending \expndtw0 on your hit-or-miss method of learning everything you can \expndtw1 for the sheer pleasure of learning."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li86\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw8\fs21 "Not quite. Our method is better. If you hadn't sent \expndtw-2 me to the Core for publicity, you'd never have known about \expndtw0 this."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li326\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You say the galaxy is exploding?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Rather, it finished exploding some nine thousand years \expndtw1 ago. I'm wearing grade twenty sunglasses, and it's still too \expndtw0 bright. A third of the Core is gone already. The patch \i is \expndtw2\i0 spreading at nearly the speed of light. I don't see that any\-\expndtw-4 thing can stop it until it hits the gas clouds beyond the Core,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li77\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 There was no comment. I went on. "A lot of the inside of \expndtw1 the patch has gone out, but all of the surface is new novas. And remember, the light I'm seeing is nine thousand years \expndtw-4 old. Now, I'm going to read you a few instruments. Radiation, \expndtw10 two hundred and ten. Cabin temperature normal, but \expndtw4 you can hear the whine of the temperature control. The \expndtw1 mass indicator shows nothing but a blur ahead. I'm turning \expndtw-3 back."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi326\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "Radiation two hundred and ten? How far are you from \expndtw0 the edge of the Core?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li72\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "About four thousand light-years, I think. I can see plumes \expndtw1 of incandescent gas starting to form in the near side of the patch, moving toward galactic north and south. It reminds \expndtw-2 me of something. Aren't there pictures of exploding galaxies \expndtw3 in the Institute?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li77\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Many. Yes, it has happened before. Beowulf Shaeffer, this is bad news. When the radiation from the Core reaches our worlds, it will sterilize them. We puppeteers will soon \expndtw-5 need considerable amounts of money. Shall I release you from \expndtw0 your contract, paying you nothing?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2443\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 I laughed. I was too surprised even to get mad. "No,"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Surely you do not intend to enter the Core?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "No. Look, why do you-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Then by the conditions of our contract, you forfeit."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li48\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5\fs21 "Wrong again. I'll take pictures of these instruments. \expndtw2 When a court sees the readings on the radiation meter and \expndtw0 the blue blur in the mass indicator, they'll \i know \i0 wrong with them."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Nonsense. Under evidence drugs you will explain the \expndtw0 readings."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Sure. And the court will know you tried to get me to go \expndtw-1 right to the center of that holocaust. You know what they'll \expndtw1 say to that?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "But how can a court of law find against a recorded con\-\expndtw0 tract?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "The point is they'll want to. Maybe they'll decide that we're both lying and the instruments really did go haywire. \expndtw-2 Maybe they'll find a way, to say the contract was illegal. But \expndtw1 they'll find against you. Want to make a side bet?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "No. You have won. Come back."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\sb168\qc\cf1\lang1033\fs21 6\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li34\ri24\sb187\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The Core was a lovely multicolored jewel when it disap\-\expndtw2 peared below the lens of the galaxy, I'd have liked to visit it someday, but there aren't any time machines,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi274\ri14\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 I'd penetrated nearly to the Core in something like a \expndtw-3 month. I took my time coming home, going straight up along \expndtw-2 galactic north and flying above the lens where there were no \expndtw2 stars to bother me, and still made it in two. All the way I \expndtw1 wondered why the puppeteer had tried to cheat me at \i the \expndtw-3\i0 last. \i Long Shot's \i0 publicity would have been better than ever; \expndtw-1 yet the regional president had been willing to throw it away just to leave me broke. I couldn't ask why, because nobody was answering my hyperphone. Nothing I knew about pup\-peteers could tell me. I felt persecuted.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri29\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 My come-hither brought me down at the base in the Far-\expndtw0 side End. Nobody was there. I took the transfer booth back \expndtw-1 to Sirius Mater, Jinx's biggest city, figuring to contact Gen\-\expndtw1 eral Products, turn over the ship, and pick up my pay.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 More surprises awaited me.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li10\ri48\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 1) General Products had paid one hundred and fifty thou\-\expndtw1 sand stars into my account in the Bank of Jinx. A personal\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 note stated that whether or not I wrote my article was solely up to me.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2{\pntext\f0 2)\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent216\pnstart2\pndec{\pntxta)}}
\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\sl-197\slmult0\tx485\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 General Products has disappeared. They are selling no\line\expndtw5 more spacecraft hulls. Companies with contracts have had\line\expndtw7 their penalty clauses paid off. It all happened two months\line\expndtw3 ago, simultaneously on all known worlds.\expndtw-9\par
\expndtw5{\pntext\f0 3)\tab}The bar I'm in is on the roof of the tallest building in\line\expndtw3 Sirius Mater, more than a mile above the streets. Even from\line\expndtw8 here I can hear the stock market crashing. It started with\line\expndtw4 the collapse of spacecraft companies with no hulls to build\line\expndtw1 ships. Hundreds of others have followed. It takes a long time\line\expndtw7 for an interstellar market to come apart at the seams, but,\line as with the Core novas, I don't see anything that can stop\line\expndtw5 the chain reaction.\expndtw-9\par
\pard\cbpat2{\pntext\f0 4)\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent216\pnstart2\pndec{\pntxta)}}
\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\tx485\expndtw4 The secret of the indestructible General Products hull\line\expndtw5 is being advertised for sale. General Products' human rep\-\line\expndtw4 resentatives will collect bids for one year, no bid to be less\line than one trillion stars. Get in on the ground floor, folks.\expndtw-10\par
\pard\cbpat2{\pntext\f0 5)\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent216\pnstart2\pndec{\pntxta)}}
\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\sl-197\slmult0\tx485\expndtw2 Nobody knows anything. That's what's causing most of\line\expndtw5 the panic. It's been a month since a puppeteer was seen on\line\expndtw9 any known world. Why did they drop so suddenly out of\line\expndtw6 interstellar affairs?\expndtw-12\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\expndtw0 I know.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri29\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 In twenty thousand years a flood of radiation will wash over this region of space. Thirty thousand light-years may \expndtw4 seem a long, safe distance, but it isn't, not with this big an \expndtw1 explosion. I've asked. The Core explosion will make this gal\-\expndtw4 axy uninhabitable to any known form of life.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Twenty thousand years \i is a \i0 long time. It's four times as \expndtw5 long as human written history. We'll all be less than dust \expndtw3 before things get dangerous, and I for one am not going to \expndtw4 worry about it.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 But the puppeteers are different. They're scared. They're \expndtw5 getting out right now. Paying off their penalty clauses and buying motors and other equipment to put in their inde\-structible hulls will take so much money that even confis\-\expndtw4 cating my puny salary would have been a step to the good. \expndtw5 Interstellar business can go to hell; from now on, the pup\-peteers will have no time for anything but running.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Where will they go? Well, the galaxy is surrounded by a \expndtw3 halo of small globular clusters. The ones near the rim might \expndtw1 be safe. Or the puppeteers may even go as far as Andromeda. \expndtw2 They have the \i Long Shot \i0 for exploring if they come back for\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2357\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 it, and they can build more. Outside the galaxy is space empty \expndtw2 enough even for a puppeteer pilot, if he thinks his species is \expndtw5 threatened.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 It's a pity. This galaxy will be dull without puppeteers, \expndtw1 Those two-headed monsters were not only the most depend\-\expndtw4 able faction in interstellar business; they were like water in a wasteland of more-or-less humanoids. It's too bad they \expndtw6 aren't brave, like us.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 But is it?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 I never heard of a puppeteer refusing to face a problem. He may merely be deciding how fast to run, but he'll never \expndtw5 pretend the problem isn't there. Sometime within the next \expndtw1 twenty millennia we humans will have to move \i a. \i0 population \expndtw4 that already numbers forty-three billion. How? To where? \expndtw5 When \i should \i0 we start thinking about this? When the glow \expndtw4 of the Core begins to shine through the dust clouds?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Maybe men are the cowards-at the core.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li1276\ri1800\sb1128\sl-480\slmult0\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw19\b\fs29 A Pail of Air \expndtw-15\b0 FRITZ  LEIBER\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li14\ri34\sb418\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Pa had sent me out to get an extra pail of air. I'd just about \expndtw2 scooped it full and most of the warmth had leaked from my \expndtw5 fingers when I saw the thing.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri43\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 You know, at first I thought it was a young lady. Yes, a \expndtw2 beautiful young lady's face all glowing in the dark and look\-\expndtw-1 ing at me from the fifth floor of the opposite apartment, which \expndtw2 hereabouts is the floor just above the white blanket of frozen air. I'd never seen a live young lady before, except in the old \expndtw3 magazines-Sis is just a kid and Ma is pretty sick and mis\-\expndtw5 erable-and it gave me such a start that I dropped the pail. \expndtw2 Who wouldn't, knowing everyone on Earth was dead except \expndtw5 Pa and Ma and Sis and you?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri58\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Even at that, I don't suppose I should have been surprised. \expndtw8 We all see things now and then. Ma has some pretty bad\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2352\sl-202\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 ones, to judge from the way she bugs her eyes at nothing and \expndtw-1 just screams and screams and huddles back back against the \expndtw1 blankets hanging around the Nest. Pa says it is natural we should react like that sometimes.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri38\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 When I'd recovered the pail and could look again at the \expndtw-4 opposite apartment, I got an idea of what Ma might be feeling \expndtw2 at those times, for I saw it wasn't a young lady at all but \expndtw-1 simply a light-a tiny light that moved stealthily from win\-\expndtw-4 dow to window, just as if one of the cruel little stars had come \expndtw-1 down out of the airless sky to investigate why the Earth had \expndtw-3 gone away from the Sun, and maybe to hunt down something \expndtw3 to torment or terrify, now that the Earth didn't have the \expndtw-1 Sun's protection.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri62\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 I tell you, the thought of it gave me the creeps, I just stood \expndtw0 there shaking, and almost froze my feet and did frost my \expndtw1 helmet so solid on the inside that I couldn't have seen the \expndtw-4 light even if it had come out of one of the windows to get me. \expndtw0 Then I had the wit to go back inside.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri62\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Pretty soon I was feeling my familiar way through the \expndtw3 thirty or so blankets and rugs Pa has got hung around to \expndtw-3 slow down the escape of air from the Nest, and I wasn't quite \expndtw-2 so scared. I began to hear the tick-ticking of the clocks in the \expndtw1 Nest and knew I was getting back into air, because there's \expndtw-3 no sound outside in the vacuum, of course. But my mind was \expndtw2 still crawly and uneasy as I pushed through the last blan\-\expndtw-2 kets-Pa's got them faced with aluminum foil to hold in the \expndtw0 heat-and came into the Nest.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri67\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Let me tell you about the Nest. It's low and snug, just \expndtw-2 room for the four of us and our things. The floor is covered \expndtw-1 with thick woolly rugs. Three of the sides are blankets, and \expndtw-2 the blankets roofing it touch Pa's head. He tells me it's inside \expndtw-1 a much bigger room, but I've never seen the real walls or \expndtw-4 ceiling.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri82\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Against one of the blanket-walls is a big set of shelves, \expndtw-3 with tools and books and other stuff, and on top of it a whole \expndtw-4 row of clocks. Pa's very fussy about keeping them wound. He \expndtw-1 says we must never forget time, and without a sun or moon, that would be easy to do.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri72\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The fourth wall has blankets all over except around the fireplace, in which there is a fire that must never go out. It \expndtw-1 keeps us from freezing and does a lot more besides. One of \expndtw1 us must always watch it. Some of the clocks are alarm and \expndtw2 we can use them to remind us. In the early days there was\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2366\sl-202\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 only Ma to take turns with Pa-I think of that when she gets \expndtw-1 difficult-but now there's me to help, and Sis too.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li53\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 It's Pa who is the chief guardian of the fire, though. I \expndtw-3 always think of him that way: a tall man sitting cross-legged, \expndtw0 frowning anxiously at the fire, his lined face golden in its \expndtw-4 light, and every so often carefully placing on it a piece of coal \expndtw-1 from the big heap beside it. Pa tells me there used to be \expndtw-2 guardians of the fire sometimes in the very old days-vestal \expndtw0 virgins, he calls them-although there was unfrozen air all \expndtw1 around then and you didn't really need one,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He was sitting just that way now, though he got up quick \expndtw-2 to take the pail from me and bawl me out for loitering-he'd \expndtw-1 spotted my frozen helmet right off. That roused Ma and she joined in picking on me. She's always trying to get the load \expndtw0 off her feelings, Pa explains. He shut her up pretty fast. Sis \expndtw-2 let off a couple of silly squeals too.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Yet it's that glimmery white stuff in the pail that keeps \expndtw-2 us alive. It slowly melts and vanishes and refreshes the Nest \expndtw1 and feeds the fire. The blankets keep it from escaping too \expndtw-3 fast. Pa'd like to seal the whole place, but he can't-building's too earthquake-twisted, and besides he has to leave the chim\-\expndtw-2 ney open for smoke,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Pa says air is tiny molecules that fly away like a flash if \expndtw1 there isn't something to stop them. We have to watch \expndtw2 not to let the air run low. Pa always keeps a big reserve \expndtw0 supply of it \scaps ib \scaps0 buckets behind the first blankets, along with \expndtw-1 extra coal and cans of food and other things, such as pails of \expndtw-6 snow to melt for water. We have to go way down to the bottom \expndtw1 floor for that stuff, which is a mean trip, and get it through \expndtw-2 a door to outside.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 You see, when the Earth got cold, all the water in the air \expndtw-4 froze first and made a blanket ten feet thick or so everywhere, \expndtw-1 and then down on top of that dropped the crystals of frozen air, making another white blanket sixty or seventy feet thick \expndtw-4 maybe.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Of course, all the parts of the air didn't freeze and snow \expndtw2 down at the same time.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri53\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 First to drop out was the carbon dioxide-when you're \expndtw-2 shoveling for water, you have to make sure you don't go too \expndtw-1 high and get any of that stuff mixed in, for it would put you \expndtw1 to sleep, maybe for good, and make the fire go out. Next \expndtw-4 there's the nitrogen, which doesn't count one way or the other, \expndtw3 though it's the biggest part of the blanket. On top of that \expndtw0 and easy to get at, which is lucky for us, there's the oxygen\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2371\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li91\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 that keeps us alive. Pa says we live better than kings ever \expndtw4 did, breathing pure oxygen, but we're used to it and don't \expndtw0 notice. Finally, at the very top, there's a slick of liquid helium, \expndtw-1 which is funny stuff. All of these gases in neat separate layers. \expndtw5 Like a pussy caffay, Pa laughingly says, whatever that is.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li82\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 I was busting to tell them all about what I'd seen, and so \expndtw2 as soon as I'd ducked out of my helmet and while I was still climbing out of my suit, I cut loose. Right away Ma got ner\-\expndtw3 vous and began making eyes at the entry-slit in the blankets and wringing her hands together-the hand where she'd lost \expndtw4 three fingers from frostbite inside the good one, as usual. I \expndtw2 could tell that Pa was annoyed at me scaring her and wanted to explain it all away quickly, yet could see I wasn't fooling.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li82\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "And you watched this light for some time, son?" he asked \expndtw2 when I finished.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li77\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 I hadn't said anything about first thinking it was a young lady's face. Somehow that part embarrassed me.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li77\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Long enough for it to pass five windows and go to the \expndtw1 next floor."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li72\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "And it didn't look like stray electricity or crawling liquid \expndtw5 or starlight focused by a growing crystal, or anything like that?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li62\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 He wasn't just making up those ideas. Odd things happen in a world that's about as cold as can be, and just when you \expndtw2 think matter would be frozen dead, it takes on a strange new life. A slimy stuff comes crawling toward the Nest, just like \expndtw5 an animal snuffing for heat-that's the liquid helium. And \expndtw0 once, when I was little, a bolt of lightning-not even Pa could \expndtw7 figure where it came from-hit the nearby steeple and \expndtw0 crawled up and down it for weeks, until the glow finally died.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li302\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Not like anything I ever saw," I told him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li62\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 He stood for a moment frowning. Then, "I'll go out with you, and you show it to me," he said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi302\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Ma raised a howl at the idea of being left alone, and Sis \expndtw3 Joined in, too, but Pa quieted them. We started climbing into our outside clothes-mine had been warming by the fire. Pa \expndtw2 made them. They have plastic headpieces that were once big \expndtw5 double-duty transparent food cans, but they keep heat and \expndtw4 air in and can replace the air for a little while, long enough \expndtw3 for our trips for water and coal and food and so on.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li53\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Ma started moaning again, "I've always known there was \expndtw5 something outside there, waiting to get us. I've felt it for \expndtw1 years-something that's part of the cold and hates all warmth \expndtw4 and wants to destroy the Nest. It's been watching us all this\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2405\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li67\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 time, and now it's coming after us. It'll get you  and then come \expndtw-2 for me. Don't go, Harry!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Pa had everything on but his helmet. He knelt by the \expndtw0 fireplace and reached in and shook the long metal rod that \expndtw-2 goes up the chimney and knocks off the ice that keeps trying \expndtw-3 to clog it. Once a week he goes up on the roof to check if it's \expndtw1 working all right. That's our worst trip and Pa won't let me \expndtw0 make it alone.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li53\ri86\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Sis," Pa said quietly, "come watch the fire. Keep an eye \expndtw-3 on the air, too. If it gets low or doesn't seem to be boiling fast \expndtw0 enough, fetch another bucket from behind the blanket. But \expndtw1 mind your hands. Use the cloth to pick up the bucket."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\ri91\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Sis quit helping Ma be frightened and came over and did \expndtw0 as she was told. Ma quieted down pretty suddenly, though \expndtw-2 her eyes were still kind of wild as she watched Pa fix on his \expndtw1 helmet tight and pick up a pail and the two of us go out.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri106\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Pa led the way and I took hold of his belt. It's a funny \expndtw-1 thing, but when Pa's along I always want to hold on to him. \expndtw2 Habit, I guess, and then there's no denying that this time I \expndtw0 was a bit scared.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li24\ri110\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 You see, it's this way. We know that everything is dead \expndtw-2 out there. Pa heard the last radio voices fade away years ago, and had seen some of the last folks die who weren't as lucky \expndtw-1 or well-protected as us. So we knew that if there was some\-\expndtw1 thing groping around out there, it couldn't be anything hu\-\expndtw0 man or friendly.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li14\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Besides that, there's a feeling that comes with it always \expndtw-2 being night, \i cold \i0 night. Pa says there used to be some of that \expndtw-1 feeling even in the old days, but then every morning the Sun \expndtw0 would come and chase it away. I have to take his word for that, not ever remembering the Sun as being anything more \expndtw1 than a star. You see, I hadn't been born when the dark star \expndtw-1 snatched us away from the Sun, and by now it's dragged us \expndtw0 out beyond the orbit of the planet Pluto, Pa says, and taking \expndtw3 us farther out all the time.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 I found myself wondering whether there mightn't be some\-\expndtw4 thing on the dark star that wanted us, and if that was why \expndtw2 it had captured the Earth. Just then we came to the end of \expndtw-1 the corridor and I followed Pa out on the balcony.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri130\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 I don't know what the city looked like in the old days, but \expndtw-1 now it's beautiful. The starlight lets you see it pretty well- \expndtw1 there's quite a bit of light in those steady points speckling \expndtw-2 the blackness above. (Pa says the stars used to twinkle once, \expndtw-1 but that was because there was air.) We are on a hill and the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2366\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 shimmery plain drops away from us and then flattens out, \expndtw-3 cut up into neat squares by the troughs that used to be streets. \expndtw-2 I sometimes make my mashed potatoes look like it, before I \expndtw-1 pour on the gravy.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Some taller buildings push up out of the feathery plain, \expndtw-2 topped by rounded caps of air crystals, like the fur hood Ma \expndtw-3 wears, only whiter. On these buildings you can see the darker \expndtw-1 squares of windows, underlined by white dashes of air crys\-tals. Some of them are on a slant, for many of the buildings \expndtw1 are pretty badly twisted by the quakes and all the rest that \expndtw2 happened when the dark star captured the Earth.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Here and there a few icicles hang, water icicles from the \expndtw0 first days of the cold, other icicles of frozen air that melted \expndtw-2 on the roofs and dripped and froze again. Sometimes one of \expndtw0 those icicles will catch the light of a star and send it to you \expndtw-2 so brightly you think the star has swooped into the city. That \expndtw0 was one of the things Pa had been thinking of when I told him about the light, but I had thought of it myself first and \expndtw-1 known it wasn't so.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He touched his helmet to mine so we could talk easier and \expndtw-4 he asked me to point out the windows to him. But there wasn't \expndtw-2 any light moving around inside them now, or anywhere else. \expndtw0 To my surprise, Pa didn't bawl me out and tell me I'd been \expndtw-2 seeing things. He looked all around quite a while after filling his pail, and just as we were going inside he whipped around \expndtw-1 without warning, as if to take some peeping thing off guard.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 I could feel it, too. The old peace was gone. There was \expndtw3 something lurking out there, watching, waiting, getting \expndtw-2 ready.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Inside, he said to me, touching helmets, "If you see some\-\expndtw2 thing like that again, son, don't tell the others. Your Ma's \expndtw-1 sort of nervous these days and we owe her all the feeling of safety we can give her. Once-it was when your sister was \expndtw-2 born-I was ready to give up and die, but your Mother kept \expndtw-3 me trying Another time she kept the fire going a whole week \expndtw0 all by herself when I was sick. Nursed me and took care of \expndtw-3 the two of you, too.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "You know that game we sometimes play, sitting in a square in the Nest, tossing a ball around? Courage is like a \expndtw-2 ball, son. A person can hold it only so long, and then he's got \expndtw-3 to toss it to someone else. When it's tossed your way, you've \expndtw-4 got to catch it and hold it tight-and hope there'll be someone \expndtw0 else to toss it to when you get tired of being brave."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2107\li2357\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 His talking to me that way made me feel grown-up and \cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 good. But it didn't wipe away the thing outside from the back \expndtw0 of my mind-or the fact that Pa took it seriously.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\i\fs21 It's \i0 hard to hide your feelings about sach a thing. When \expndtw-2 we got back in the Nest and took off our outside clothes, Pa laughed about it and told them it was nothing and kidded me \expndtw-1 for having such an imagination, but his words fell flat. He \expndtw-5 didn't convince Ma and Sis any more than he did me. It looked \expndtw0 for a minute like we were all fumbling the courage-ball. \expndtw2 Something had to be done, and almost before I knew what \expndtw-1 I was going to say, I heard myself asking Pa to tell us about \expndtw0 the old days, and how it all happened.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He sometimes doesn't mind telling that story, and Sis and I sure like to listen to it, and he got my idea. So we were all \expndtw0 settled around the fire in a wink, and Ma pushed up some \expndtw-3 cans to thaw for supper, and Pa began. Before he did, though, \expndtw0 I noticed him casually get a hammer from the shelf and lay \expndtw-2 it down beside him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 It was the same old story as always-I think I could recite \expndtw2 the main thread of it in my sleep-though Pa always puts \expndtw1 in a new detail or two and keeps improving it in spots.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He told us how the Earth had been swinging around the \expndtw-1 Sun ever so steady and warm, and the people an it fixing to \expndtw-2 make money and wars and have a good time and get power \expndtw0 and treat each other right or wrong, when without warning \expndtw-3 there comes charging out of space this dead star, this burned-\expndtw1 out sun, and upsets everything.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 You know, I find it hard to believe in the way those people \expndtw3 felt, any more than I can believe in the swarming number \expndtw1 of them. Imagine people getting ready for the horrible sort \expndtw-1 of war they were cooking up. Wanting it even, or at least \expndtw-2 wishing it were over so as to end their nervousness. As if all \expndtw2 folks didn't have to hang together and pool every bit of \expndtw-1 warmth just to keep alive. And how can they have hoped to \expndtw0 end danger, \i any \i0 more then we can hope to end the cold?\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Sometimes I think Pa exaggerates and makes things out \expndtw-5 too black. He's cross with us once in a while and was probably \expndtw-1 cross with all those folks. Still some of the things I read in \expndtw0 the old magazines sound pretty wild. He may be right.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 The dark star, as Pa went on telling it, rushed in pretty \expndtw0 fast and there wasn't much time to get ready. At the begin\-\expndtw-2 ning they tried to keep it a secret from most people, but then \expndtw0 the truth came out, what with the earthquakes and floods- \expndtw-2 imagine, oceans of \i unfrozen \i0 water!-and people seeing stars \expndtw6 blotted out by something on a clear night. First off they\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2352\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\ri163\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 thought it would hit the Sun, and then they thought it would \expndtw5 hit the Earth. There was even the start of a rush to get to a \expndtw1 place called China, because people thought the star would hit \expndtw3 on the other side. But then they found it wasn't going to hit \expndtw4 either side, but was going to come very close to the Earth.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri149\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Most of the other planets were on the other side of the Sun \expndtw4 and didn't get involved. The Sun and the newcomer fought \expndtw2 over the Earth for a little while-pulling it this way and that, \expndtw-2 like two dogs growling over a bone, Pa described it this time- \expndtw3 and then the newcomer won and carried us off. The Sun got \expndtw4 a consolation prize, though. At the last minute he managed \expndtw2 to hold on to the Moon.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 That was the time of the monster earthquakes and floods, \expndtw6 twenty times worse than anything before. It was also the ., \expndtw2 time of the Big Jerk, as Pa calls it, when all Earth got yanked \expndtw4 suddenly, just as Pa has done to me once or twice, grabbing me by the collar to do it, when I've been sitting too far from \expndtw3 the fire.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri168\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 You see, the dark star was going through space faster than \expndtw3 the Sun, and in the opposite direction, and it had to wrench \expndtw4 the world considerably in order to take it away.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri173\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 The Big Jerk didn't last long. It was over as soon as the \expndtw2 Earth was settled down in its new orbit around the dark star. \expndtw7 But it was pretty terrible while it lasted. Pa says that all \expndtw1 sorts of cliffs and buildings toppled, oceans slopped over, \expndtw6 swamps and sandy deserts gave great sliding surges that \expndtw4 buried nearby lands. Earth was almost jerked out of its at\-\expndtw3 mosphere blanket and the air got so thin in spots that people \expndtw2 keeled over and fainted-though of course, at the same time they were getting knocked down by the Big Jerk and maybe \expndtw4 their bones broke or skulls cracked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri178\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 We've often asked Pa how people acted during that time, whether they were scared or brave or crazy or stunned, or all \expndtw3 four, but he's sort of leery of the subject, and he was again tonight. He says he was mostly too busy to notice.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 You see, Pa and some scientist friends of his had figured \expndtw4 out part of what was going to happen-they'd known we'd \expndtw0 get captured and our air would freeze-and they'd been work\-\expndtw3 ing like mad to fix up a place with airtight walls and doors, and insulation against the cold, and big supplies of food and fuel and water and bottled air. But the place got smashed in \expndtw7 the last earthquakes and all Pa's friends were killed then and in the Big Jerk. So he had to start over and throw the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2352\sl-202\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Nest together quick without any advantages, just using any stuff he could lay his hands on.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 I guess he's telling pretty much the truth when he says \expndtw1 he didn't have any time to keep an eye on how other folks \expndtw0 behaved, either then or in the Big Freeze that followed- followed very quick, you know, both because the dark star was pulling us away very fast and because Earth's rotation had been slowed in the tug-of-war, so that the nights were \expndtw-1 ten old nights long.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li53\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Still, I've got an idea of some of the things that happened from the frozen folk Fve seen, a few of them in other rooms \expndtw1 in our building, others clustered around the furnaces in the \expndtw-2 basements where we go for coal.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li34\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 In one of the rooms, an old man sits stiff m a chair, with \expndtw1 an arm and a leg in splints. In another, a man and woman \expndtw-4 are huddled together in a bed with heaps of covers over them. \expndtw-3 You can just see their heads peeking out, close together. And \expndtw1 m another a beautiful young lady is sitting with a pile of \expndtw-5 wraps huddled around her, looking hopefully toward the door, \expndtw-3 as if waiting for someone who never came back with warmth \expndtw-1 and food. They're all still and stiff as statues, of course, but \expndtw0 lust like life.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 Pa showed them to me once in quick winks of his flashlight, \expndtw0 when he still had a fair supply of batteries aad could afford to waste a little light. They scared me pretty bad and made my heart pound, especially the young lady.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Now, with Pa telling his story for the umpteenth time to \expndtw2 take our minds off another scare, I got to thinking of the \expndtw0 frozen folk again. All of a sudden I got an idea that scared me worse than anything yet. You see, I'd just remembered \expndtw-4 the face I'd thought I'd seen in the window. I'd forgotten about \expndtw1 that on account of trying to hide it from the others.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 What, I asked myself, if the frozen folk were coming to life? What if they were like the liquid helium that got \i a \i0 new \expndtw0 lease on life and started crawling toward the heat just when \expndtw-1 you thought its molecules ought to freeze solid forever? Or \expndtw0 like the electricity that moves endlessly when it's just about \expndtw-2 as cold as that? What if the ever-growing cold, with the tem\-\expndtw-1 perature creeping down the last few degrees to the last zero, \expndtw-3 had mysteriously wakened the frozen folk to life-not warm\-\expndtw-1 blooded life, but something icy and horrible?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 That was a worse idea than the one about something com\-\expndtw1 ing down from the dark star to get us.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2117\li2352\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Or maybe, I thought, both ideas might be true. Something \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 coming down from the dark star and making the frozen folk move, using them to do its work. That would fit with both things I'd seen-the beautiful young lady and the moving, \expndtw2 starlike light.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The frozen folk with minds from the dark star behind their unwinkling eyes, creeping, crawling, snuffing their way, fol\-\expndtw1 lowing the heat to the Nest.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 I tell you, that thought gave me a very bad turn and I \expndtw-1 wanted very badly to tell the others my fears, but I remem\-\expndtw0 bered what Pa had said and clenched my teeth and didn't \expndtw-4 speak.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li34\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 We were all sitting very still. Even the fire was burning \expndtw-4 silently. There was just the sound of Pa's voice and the clocks.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 And then, from beyond the blankets, I thought I heard a \expndtw0 tiny noise. My skin tightened all over me.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Pa was telling about the early years in the Nest and had \expndtw-2 come to the place where he philosophizes.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "So I asked myself then," he said, "what's the use of going \expndtw0 on? What's the use of dragging it out for a few years? Why \expndtw-4 prolong a doomed existence of hard work and cold and lone\-\expndtw-2 liness? The human race is done. The Earth is done. Why not \expndtw-5 give up, I asked myself-and all of a sudden I got the answer."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Again I heard the noise, louder this time, a kind of un\-certain shuffling tread, coming closer. I couldn't breathe.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li10\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Life's always been a business of working hard and fight\-\expndtw1 ing the cold," Pa was saying. "The Earth's always been a \expndtw-2 lonely place, millions of miles from the next planet. And no \expndtw0 matter how long the human race might have lived, the end \expndtw1 would have come some night. Those things don't matter. \expndtw-1 What matters is that life is good. It has a lovely texture, like \expndtw-2 some rich cloth or fur, or the petals of flowers-you've seen \expndtw-1 pictures of those, but I can't describe how they feel-or the fire's glow. It makes everything else worthwhile. And that's \expndtw3 as true for the last man as the first."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 And still the steps kept shuffling closer. It seemed to me \expndtw0 that the inmost blanket trembled and bulged a little. Just as \expndtw-2 if they were burned into my imagination, I kept seeing those \expndtw-3 peering, frozen eyes.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "So right then and there," Pa went on, and now I could \expndtw0 tell that he heard the steps, too, and was talking loud so we \expndtw-3 maybe wouldn't hear them, "right then and there I told myself \expndtw-1 that I was going on as if we had all eternity ahead of us. I'd \expndtw-2 have children and teach them all I could. I'd get them to read \expndtw-3 books. I'd plan for the future, try to enlarge and seal the Nest.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2362\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi96\li101\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 I'd do what I could to keep everything beautiful and growing. I'd\expndtw4  keep alive my feeling of wonder even at the cold and the dark\expndtw7\scaps  \scaps0 and the distant stars."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 But then the blanket actually did move and lift. And there\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 was a bright light somewhere behind it. Pa's voice stopped\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 and his eyes turned to the widening slit and his hand went\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri10\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw7 out until it touched and gripped the handle of the hammer\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri4099\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5 beside him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 In through the blanket stepped the beautiful young lady.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw9 She stood there looking at us the strangest way, and she\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw9 carried something bright and unwinking in her hand. And\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 two other faces peered over her shoulders-men's faces, white\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri4037\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033 and staring.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Well, my heart couldn't have been stopped for more than\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 four or five beats before I realized she was wearing a suit and\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 helmet like Pa's homemade ones, only fancier, and that the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 men were, too-and that the frozen folk certainly wouldn't\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 be wearing those. Also, I noticed that the bright thing in her\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri2189\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 hand was just a kind of flashlight.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The silence kept on while I swallowed hard a couple of \expndtw6 times, and after that there was all sorts of jabbering and co\expndtw-5 mmotion.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033 They were simply people, you see. We hadn't been the only o\expndtw9 nes to survive; we'd just thought so, for natural enough re\expndtw6 asons. These three people had survived, and quite a few others with them. And when we found out \i how \i0 they'd sur\-\expndtw2 vived, Pa let out the biggest whoop of joy.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 They were from Los Alamos and they were getting their heat and power from atomic energy. Just using the uranium \expndtw1 and plutonium intended for bombs, they had enough to go on fo\expndtw2 r thousands of years. They had a regular little airtight city, with\expndtw3  airlocks and all. They even generated electric light and \expndtw5 grew plants and animals by it. (At this Pa let out a second \expndtw2 whoop, waking Ma from her faint.)\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi226\li14\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 But if we were flabbergasted at them, they were double-flabbergasted at us.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi226\li5\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 One of the men kept saying, "But it's impossible, I tell y\expndtw1 ou. You can't maintain an air supply without hermetic seal-in\expndtw4 g. It's simply impossible."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi221\li5\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 That was after he had got his helmet off and was using o\expndtw4 ur air. Meanwhile, the young lady kept looking around at us as if we were saints, and telling us we'd done something amazing, and suddenly she broke down and cried.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2117\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 They'd been scouting around for survivors, but thev never \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 expected to find any in a place like this. They had rocket \expndtw-5 ships at Los Alamos and plenty of chemical fuel. As for liquid \expndtw-6 oxygen, all you had to do was go out and shovel the air blanket \expndtw-1 at the top level. So after they'd got things going smoothly at \expndtw-2 Los Alamos, which had taken years, they'd decided to make \expndtw0 some trips to likely places where there might be other sur\-\expndtw-3 vivors. No good trying long-distance radio signals, of course, \expndtw2 since there was no atmosphere to carry them around the \expndtw1 curve of the Earth.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi288\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Well, they'd found other colonies at Argonne and Brook-haven and way around the world at Harwell and Tanna Tuva. \expndtw-2 And now they'd been giving our city a look, not really ex\-\expndtw2 pecting to find anything. But they had an instrument that \expndtw1 noticed the faintest heat waves and it had told them there \expndtw0 was something warm down here, so they'd landed to inves\-\expndtw-2 tigate. Of course we hadn't heard them land, since there was \expndtw-4 no air to carry the sound, and they'd had to investigate around \expndtw-1 quite a while before finding us. Their instruments had given \expndtw-3 them a wrong steer and they'd wasted some time in the build\-\expndtw1 ing across the street.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li29\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 By now, all five adults were talking like sixty. Pa was \expndtw-3 demonstrating to the men how he worked the fire and got rid \expndtw1 of the ice in the chimney and all that. Ma had perked up \expndtw-5 wonderfully and was showing the young lady her cooking and \expndtw-2 sewing stuff, and even asking about how the women dressed \expndtw1 at Los Alamos. The strangers marveled at everything and \expndtw-4 praised it to the skies. I could tell from the way they wrinkled \expndtw0 their noses that they found the Nest a bit smelly, but they never mentioned that at all and just asked bushels of ques\-\expndtw-2 tions.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 In fact, there was so much talking and excitement that Pa \expndtw0 forgot about things, and it wasn't until they were all getting \expndtw-3 groggy that he looked around and found the air had all boiled \expndtw1 away in the pail. He got another bucket of air quick from \expndtw-2 behind the blankets. Of course that started them all laughing and jabbering again. The newcomers even got a little drunk. They weren't used to so much oxygen.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li14\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Funny thing, though-I didn't do much talking at all and \expndtw-4 Sis hung on to Ma all the time and hid her face when anybody \expndtw-2 looked at her. I felt pretty uncomfortable and disturbed my\-\expndtw-3 self, even about the young lady. Glimpsing her outside there, \expndtw0 I'd had all sorts of mushy thoughts, but now I was just em\-\expndtw-2 barrassed and scared of her, even though she tried to be nice \expndtw1 as anything to me.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2371\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li67\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 I sort of wished they'd all quit crowding the Nest and let us be alone and get our feelings straightened out.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 And when the newcomers began to talk about our all going \expndtw-1 to Los Alamos, as if that were taken for granted, I could see t\expndtw-2 hat something of the same feeling struck Pa and Ma, too," \expndtw0 Pa got very silent all of a sudden and Ma kept telling the young lady, "But I wouldn't know how to act there and I haven't any clothes."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li48\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The strangers were puzzled like anything at first, but then \expndtw0 they got the idea. As Pa kept saying, "It just doesn't seem \expndtw1 right to let this fire go out."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li43\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Well, the strangers are gone, but they're coming back. It \expndtw1 hasn't been decided yet just what will happen. Maybe the Nest will be kept up as what one of the strangers called a \expndtw-1 "survival school." Or maybe we will join the pioneers who \expndtw1 are going to try to establish a new colony at the uranium \expndtw0 mines at Great Slave Lake or in the Congo.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Of course, now that the strangers are gone, I've been think\-\expndtw-2 ing a lot about Los Alamos and those other tremendous col\-\expndtw0 onies. I have a hankering to see them for myself.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li34\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 You ask me, Pa wants to see them, too. He's been getting \expndtw1 pretty thoughtful, watching Ma and Sis perk up.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "It's different, now that we know others are alive," he \expndtw-2 explains to me. "Your mother doesn't feel so hopeless arty \expndtw1 more. Neither do I, for that matter, not having to carry the \expndtw-2 whole responsibility for keeping the human race going, so to \expndtw2 speak It scares a person."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li24\ri48\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 I looked around at the blanket walls and the fire and the pails of air boiling away and Ma and Sis sleeping in the \expndtw1 warmth and the flickering light.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "It's not going to be easy to leave the Nest," I said, wanting \expndtw1 to cry, kind of. "It's so small and there's just the four of us. \expndtw0 I get scared at the idea of big places and a lot of strangers."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He nodded and put another piece of coal on the fire. Then \expndtw0 he looked at the little pile and grinned suddenly and put a couple of handfuls on, just as if it was one of our birthdays or Christmas.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li5\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You'll quickly get over that feeling son," he said. "The \expndtw0 trouble with the world was that it kept getting smaller and \expndtw-2 smaller, till it ended with just the Nest. Now it'll be good to \expndtw-1 have a real huge world again, the way it was in the begin\-ning."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 I guess he's right. You think the beautiful young lady will \expndtw0 wait for me till I grow up? I'll be twenty in only ten years.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2347\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li993\ri1574\sl-480\slmult0\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw11\b\fs30 King of the Hill \expndtw-20\b0 CHAD  OLIVER\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\sb418\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 She floated there in the great nothing, still warm and soft \expndtw-2 and blue-green if you could eyeball her from a few thousand \expndtw0 miles out, still kissed under blankets of clouds.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Mama Earth, Getting old now, tired, her blankets soiled \expndtw2 with her own secretions, her body bruised and torn by a \expndtw-1 billion forgotten passions.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Like many a mother before her, she had given birth to a monster. Me was not old, not as planets measure time, and \expndtw1 there had been other children. But he was old enough. He had taken over.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 His name?\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 You know it: there are no surprises left. Man. Big Daddy \expndtw1 of the primates. The ape that walks like a chicken. Homo \expndtw-2 sap. Ah, the tool-maker, flapper of tongues, builder of fires, \expndtw1 sex fiend, dreamer, destroyer, creator of garbage...\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 You know me, Al.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Mirror, mirror, on the wall-\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Ant is the name, anthill is the game.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 There were many men, too many men. They have names.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Try this one on for size: Sam Gregg. Don't like it? Rings no bells? Not elegant enough? Wrong ethnic affiliation?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Few among the manswarm, if any, cared for Sam Gregg. \expndtw-2 One or two, possibly, gave a damn about his name. A billion \expndtw0 or so knew his name.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sb10\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Mostly, they hated his guts-and envied him.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He was there, Sam Gregg, big as life and twice as ugly.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sb10\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He stuck out.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sb10\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 A rock in the sandpile.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li235\sb216\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 They were after him again.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2112\li2357\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Sam Gregg felt the pressure. There had been \i a \i0 time when \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 he had thrived on it; the adrenaline had flowed and the juices \expndtw2 bubbled. Sure, and there had been a time when dinosaurs had walked the earth. Sam had been born in the year that \expndtw-2 men had first walked on the moon. (It had tickled him, when he was old enough to savor it. A man with the unlikely name of Armstrong, no less. And his faithful sidekick, Buzz. And \expndtw-3 good old Mike holding the fort, Jesus.) That made him nearly \expndtw2 a century old. His doctors were good, the best. It was no \expndtw-2 miracle to live a hundred years, not these days. But he wasn't \expndtw0 a kid anymore, as he demonstrated occasionally with Lois.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 The attacks were not particularly subtle, but they were \expndtw-2 civilized. That meant that nobody called you a son of a bitch \expndtw2 to your face, and the assassins carried statistics and plati-\expndtw0 tudes instead of knives and strangling cords.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i\fs21 Item. \i0 A bill had been introduced in Washington by good \expndtw-5 old Senator Raleigh, millionaire defender of the poor. Stripped \expndtw-2 of its stumbling oratorical flourishes, it argued that undersea \expndtw-3 development was now routine and therefore that there should \expndtw2 be no tax dodges for phony risk capital investment. That \expndtw-1 little arrow was aimed straight at one of Sam's companies- \expndtw-3 at several of them, in fact, although the somewhat dim-witted Raleigh probably did not know that. Sam .could beat the bill, \expndtw-1 but it would cost him money. That annoyed him. He had an \expndtw-4 expensive hobby.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i\fs21 Item. \i0 Sam retained a covey of bright boys whose only job \expndtw1 it was to keep his name out of the communications media. \expndtw-1 They weren't entirely successful; your name is not known to a billion people on a word-of-mouth basis. Still, he had not \expndtw-4 been subjected to one of those full-scale, no-holds-barred, dy\-\expndtw-2 namic, daring personal close-ups for nearly a year now. One \expndtw-3 was coming up, on Worldwide. The mystery man-revealed! \expndtw-4 The richest man in the world-exposed! The hermit-trapped \expndtw1 by fearless reporters! Sam was not amused. The earth was \expndtw-1 sick, blotched by hungry and desperate people from pole to \expndtw0 shining pole. There had never been an uglier joke than pin\-\expndtw2 ning man's future on birth control. A sick world needs a \expndtw-4 target for its anger. Sam's only hope was to be inconspicuous. \expndtw0 He had failed in that, and it would get him in the end. Still, \expndtw3 he only needed a little more time,,,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\i\fs21 Item. \i0 The U.N. delegate from the Arctic Republic had \expndtw1 charged that Arctic citizens of Eskimo descent were being \expndtw0 passed over for high administrative positions in franchises licensed to operate in the Republic. "We must not and will \expndtw-3 not allow," he said, "the well-known technical abilities of oar\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2357\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 people to serve as a pretext for modern-day colonial exploi\-\expndtw-5 tation." The accusation was so much rancid blubber, of course; \expndtw-1 Sam happened to like Eskimos as well as he liked anybody, \expndtw1 and in any event he was always very careful about such \expndtw-2 things. No matter. There would be a hearing, facts would \expndtw-1 have to be tortured by the computers, stories would have to \expndtw-2 be planted, money would be spent. The root of all evil pro-\expndtw0 duced a popular shrub.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 There were other items, most of them routine. Sam did not deal with them himself, and had not done so for fifty \expndtw-1 years. ("Mr. Gregg never does anything \i personally," \i0 as one aide had put it in a famous interview.) Sam routed the prob\-\expndtw0 lems down to subordinates; that was what they were for. \expndtw-2 Nevertheless, he kept in touch. A ruler who does not know \expndtw1 what is going on in his empire can expect the early arrival \expndtw-2 of the goon squad that escorts him into oblivion. There were \expndtw2 the usual appeals to support Worthy Causes, to contribute \expndtw0 to Charity, to help out Old Friends. Sam denied them all \expndtw-2 without a qualm and without doing anything; his lieutenants \expndtw2 had their orders. A penny saved...\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Sam was not really worried; at worst he was harassed, which was the chronic complaint of executives. \i They \i0 were \expndtw-3 not on to him yet. There was no slightest hint of a leak where \expndtw-1 it counted. If \i that \i0 one ever hit the air cleaner there would be \expndtw0 a stink they could smell in the moon labs.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Still, he felt the pressure. He was human, at least in his \expndtw-3 own estimation. There was a classic cure for pressure, known \expndtw3 to students of language as getting away from it all. It was \expndtw-1 a cure that was no longer possible for the vast majority of \expndtw0 once-human beings, for the simple reason that there was \expndtw-4 nowhere to go.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 ("To what do you attribute your long and successful life, \expndtw-3 Mr. Gregg?'" "Well, I pension off my wives so that I always \expndtw4 have a young one, and I see to it that she talks very little. \expndtw-2 I drink a lot of good booze, but I never get drunk. I don't eat meat. I count my money when I get depressed. If I feel tense, \expndtw1 I knock about the estate until I feel better. I try to break at \expndtw-2 least three laws every day. I owe it all to being a completely evil man.")\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Sam Gregg could take the cure, and he did.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sb202\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He did not have to leave his own land, of course. \expndtw0 Sam \i never \i0 left his Estate. (Well, hardly ever.) \expndtw-2 He took the private tube down from his suite in the tower \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 and stepped outside. That was the way he thought of it, but \expndtw-2 it was not precisely true. There was a miniature life-support; pod that arched over a thousand acres of his property. It was \expndtw-4 a high price to pay for clean air, but it was the only way. Sam \expndtw0 needed it and so did the animals.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 There were two laws that he broke every day. In a world \expndtw0 so strangled by countless tons of human meat that land per \expndtw-4 capita was measured in square feet, Sam Gregg owned more \expndtw-2 than a thousand \i acres. \i0 Moreover, he did nothing useful with \expndtw-3 that supremely illegal land. He kept \i animals \i0 on it. Even dogs \expndtw0 and cats had been outlawed for a quarter of a century, and \expndtw-4 what passed for meat was grown in factory vats. When people \expndtw0 are starving, wasting food on pets is a criminal act, (Who \expndtw-2 says so? Why, people do.) Most of the zoos were gone now, \expndtw-1 and parks and forests and meadows were things of the past.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\fs21 Sam took a deep breath, drinking in the air. It was just \expndtw1 right, and not completely artificial either. Cool it was, and \expndtw2 fragrant with living smells: trees and wet-green grass and \expndtw5 water that glided over rocks and earth that was soft and \expndtw-2 thick.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li29\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 This was all that was left, a fact that Sam fully appreci\-\expndtw-2 ated.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li24\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 This was the world as it once had been, lost now and \expndtw-5 forever.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Man had come, mighty man. Oh, he was smart, he was clever. He had turned the seas into cesspools, the air into sludge, the mountains into shrieking cities. Someone had \expndtw-1 once said that one chimpanzee was no chimpanzee. It was true; they were social animals. But how about ten thousand \expndtw-6 chimpanzees caged in a square mile? That was no chimpanzee \expndtw0 also-that was crazy meat on a fanny farm.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li19\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Oh, man was clever. He raped a world until he could not \expndtw0 live with it, and then he screamed for help.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Don't call me, AI. Ill call you.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Sam shook his head. It was no good thinking about it. He \expndtw0 could not ride to the rescue, not with all of his billions. He \expndtw-2 had no great admiration for his fellow men, and it would not \expndtw2 matter if he had.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri62\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qr\tx4766\cf1\lang1033\fs21 There was only one thing left to try.\tab\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\fs21   Sam tried to close his mind to it. He had to stay alive a\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qr\tx5002\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 little longer. He had to relax, value, enjoy-\expndtw0\tab\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 He walked along an unpaved trail, very likely the last one \expndtw0 left on the planet. He breathed clean air, he felt the warmth of the sun glowing through the pod, he absorbed...\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2347\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 There were squirrels chattering in the trees, rabbits busy at rabbit-business in the brush. He saw a deer, a beautiful \expndtw-1 buck with moss on his horns; the buck ran when he spotted \expndtw0 Sam. He knew who the enemy was. He saw a thin raccoon, a female that stared at him from behind her bandit's mask. \expndtw-1 She had three young ones with her and they were bold, but \expndtw1 Mama herded them up into an oak and out of danger. He \expndtw0 could see the three little masks peering down at him from the branches.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The trail wound along a stream of cold, fast water. Sam watched the dark olive shadows lurking in the pools. Trout, \expndtw1 of course. Sam drew the line at bass and carp,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 He came out of the trees and into a field of tall grass. \expndtw-2 There were yellow flowers and insects buzzed in the air. He \expndtw0 sensed the closeness of shapes and forms, but he could not \expndtw-1 see them in the breeze-swept grass. There was life here, and \expndtw1 death, and life again.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 But not for long.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 He turned and retraced his steps. He felt a little better.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The raccoons were still in the oak.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Sam went back inside. Back to the salt mine.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He worked hard until dinner.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri19\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "What was the exact hour?" Lois asked him, absently \expndtw-1 stroking one of her remarkable legs. (She had two of them.)\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I don't remember," Sam said. "I was very young."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Come on, Sam. I'm not stupid. You \i can't \i0 tell me that with \expndtw-3 all the resources of your mysterious enterprises you can't find \expndtw1 out the exact time."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "I am telling you. I don't know." Sam looked at her, which \expndtw-2 was always pleasant in a tense sort of way. Lois was sensual but there was no softness in her. She had a lacquered surface \expndtw2 stretched like a drumhead over taut springs. She always \expndtw-2 looked perfect, but even her casual clothes were somehow formal. She never forgot herself. She was a challenge, which \expndtw-4 was fine once in a while. Sam was old enough to decline most \expndtw-1 challenges without dishonor.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Lois did not have to remind Sam that she had a brain. \expndtw0 Sam never made \i that \i0 mistake. Her little reference to "mys\-\expndtw2 terious enterprises" was an effective threat. At thirty, she \expndtw-1 had climbed the highest pinnacle on her scale of values: she \expndtw-2 was the wife of the richest man in the world. She didn't want \expndtw2 a settlement. She wanted it all. Sam had no children.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2117\li2357\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Bright, yes. Cunning, yes. Skilled, certainly. Faithful with \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 her body, yes-Lois took no needless risks. But that fine-\expndtw1 boned head enclosed a brain that was all output; not much \expndtw-2 of significance ever went \i in. \i0 The hard violet eyes looked out \expndtw0 from jelly that had been molded in Neolithic times.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 She would have made a dandy witch.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 She spent her days puttering with expensive clothing and \expndtw-3 obscure cosmetics. She had a library of real books, thus prov\-\expndtw1 ing her intellectual capacity. They were all about reincar\-\expndtw-3 nation and astrology. She considered herself something of an \expndtw0 expert with horoscopes. A pun had frequently occurred to Sam in this connection, but he had refrained. He was not a cruel man.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li43\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "I want to do it for you," she \'abaid. "You have decisions to \expndtw-1 make. It would help. Really, Sam."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 She was quite sincere, like all fanatics. It was a gift she could give him, and that was important to her. It was an \expndtw-2 ancient problem for women like Lois: what do you give to a \expndtw2 man who has everything? The gag presents get pretty thin \expndtw-1 very quickly, and Sam was not a man who was easily con\-\expndtw-4 vulsed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He sipped his drink, enjoying it. He always drank Scotch; \expndtw2 the labs could create nothing better. "Well," he said, "I \expndtw0 haven't a clue about the minute of my birth. I'd just as soon forget my birthday."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Lois was patient. "It would be so simple to find out."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "But I don't give a damn."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i\fs21 "I \i0 give \i a \i0 damn. What about me? It's a small thing. I know \expndtw2 the day, of course. But if the moons of Saturn were in the \expndtw4 right position..."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Sam raised his eyebrows and took a large swallow of \expndtw0 Scotch before he answered. "They are always in the right position," he said carefully, 'That's the way moons are."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Oh, Sam." She did not cry; she had learned some things,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Sam Gregg stood up to refill his glass. He did not like to \expndtw-2 have obtrusive robots around the house. Self-reliance and all \expndtw2 that.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He was not unaware of himself. He did not look his age. \expndtw0 He was a tall, angular man. There was still strength in him. \expndtw-1 His hair was gray, not white. His craggy face was lined but \expndtw0 there was no flab on him. His brown eyes were sharp, like \expndtw-1 dirty ice,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Sam sometimes thought of himself as a vampire in one of \expndtw-4 the still-popular epics. ("Ah, my dear, velcome to Castle Mor-dar. A moment while I adjust my dentures.") Splendid-looking\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li115\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 chap, distinguished even. But then, suddinkly, at the worst \expndtw-2 possible moment, he dissolves into a puff of primeval dust...\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li115\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Let's go beddy-bye," Sam said, draining his glass. "Maybe \expndtw0 I can remember."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li360\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I'll help you," Lois said, reporting for duty.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li355\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You'll have to," Sam agreed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li106\ri10\sb202\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Sam worked very hard the next few weeks. He even found \expndtw0 time to check the hour and the minute of his birth. He was being very careful indeed, trying to think of everything.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi312\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Lois was delighted. She retreated to her mystic stewpot\sub t \expndtw1\nosupersub consulted her illustrated charts, talked it over with several dead Indians, and informed Sam that he was thinking about \expndtw-3  a long, long journey.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li346\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Sam didn't explode into laughter.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li96\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 His work was difficult because so much of it involved wait\-\expndtw0 ing. There were many programs to consider, all of them set \expndtw-1 in motion years ago. They had to mesh perfectly. They all \expndtw-2 depended on the work of other men. And they all had to be \expndtw-4 masked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 It wasn't easy. How, for instance, do you hide a couple of \expndtw-3  spaceships? Particularly when they keep taking off and land\-\expndtw2 ing with all the stealth of trumpeting elephants?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li101\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 ("Spaceship? I don't see any spaceship. Do you see a space\-\expndtw-6 ship?")\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li86\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Answer: You don't hide them. You account for them. For \expndtw0 all practical purposes, Sam owned the space station that or\-bited the Earth. He controlled it through a mosaic of inter\-\expndtw-3 locking companies, domestic and foreign. It was only natural \expndtw0 for him to operate a few shuttle ships. A man has a right to keep his finger in his own pie.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li326\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i\fs21 Owned \i0 the space station, Daddy?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Yes, Junior. Listen, my son, and you shall hear...\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi216\li86\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The great space dream had been a bust. A colossal fizzle. \expndtw0 A thumping anticlimax.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li82\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The trails blazed by the space pioneers led-quite liter\-\expndtw-5 ally-Nowhere.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li77\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Fortunately or otherwise, Mighty Man could not create \expndtw-3 the solar system in his own image. The solar system was one \expndtw-1 hell of a place, and not just on Pluto. There were no conve\-\expndtw0 niently verdant worlds. There were just rocks and craters, \expndtw-1 heat and cold, lifeless dust and frozen chemicals.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li77\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 There were other suns, other planets. Big deal. There were \expndtw7 no handy space warps, no faster-than-light drives. Un-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2429\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 manned survey ships took a very long time to report, and \expndtw2 their news produced no dancing in the streets: rocks, craters, \expndtw3 desolation. Who would spend a lifetime to visit Nothing?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Would you? (Naw, I'd rather go see Grandma.)\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Scientific bases had been established on Luna, and they \expndtw1 survived. They survived with enormous expense, with highly \expndtw4 trained personnel, with iron discipline. Even the scientific \expndtw5 teams had to be replaced at short intervals.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Radiation, you know. Puts funny kinks in the old chro\-\expndtw-3 mosomes.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 The Mars Colony of half a century ago, widely advertised \expndtw3 as a solution to the population crisis, was a solution only in \expndtw1 the grim sense of a Final Solution. Even with the life-support \expndtw5 pods-Sam had lost a fortune on the early models, but he \expndtw0 had learned a few things-it was no go. Five thousand human \expndtw5 beings had gone to Mars to start the New Life. (A drop in the bucket, to be sure. But there was much talk about Be\-\expndtw4 ginnings, and Heroic Ancestors, and First Steps.) A few of \expndtw3 them had gotten back. Most had died or gone mad or both. \expndtw5 Some of them were still there, although this was not gen\-\expndtw3 erally known. They -were no longer human.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 The problem was that it was perfectly possible to set up \expndtw1 a scientific base on Mars, or even a military base if there had \expndtw4 been any need for one. But soldiers on Mars are a joke, and \expndtw5 appropriations committees had long since stopped playing the old game: \i Can You Top This? \i0 Scientists could do little \expndtw1 on Mars that they could not do on Luna. And people-plain, \expndtw7 ordinary people, the kind that swarmed the Earth and \expndtw4 scratched for a living, the kind that had to go-could not \expndtw3 exist on Mars.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2 And so?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 And so, kiddies, what was left of the space program was \expndtw5 taken over by what was referred to as the Private Sector of \expndtw3 the Economy. Got your decoder badges ready? It works out \expndtw2 to S-a-m G-r-e-g-g. Governments could not continue to pour \expndtw0 billions into space when there was no \i earthly \i0 reason for doing \expndtw6 so. But with existing hardware and accumulated expertise \expndtw4 it was not prohibitively expensive for Sam Gregg to keep a \expndtw2 few things going. There was the matter of motive, of course. \expndtw4 Sam Gregg had one, and he made money besides.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 There were other projects to conceal, but they were easier \expndtw3 than spaceships. Genetics research? Well, cancer was still a \expndtw4 killer and everyone wanted to live forever. Such work was \expndtw6 downright humanitarian, and therefore admirable. Ecolog-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2362\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 ical studies? The whole wretched planet was fouled by its \expndtw-5 own ecology-a solution \i had \i0 to be found. (There was no so\-\expndtw1 lution at this late date, but so what? It was a Good Thing. \expndtw-3 Everyone said so.) Computers, robots, cybernetics? Certainly \expndtw3\i they \i0 were beyond reproach. Hadn't they ushered in the \expndtw-2 Golden Age? Well, hadn't they?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Sam Gregg had his faults-ask anyone-but wishful \expndtw-4 thinking was not among them. He \i knew \i0 that he could succeed \expndtw-1 if he just had time. He could succeed if they didn't get him first. He could succeed because he had the resources and \expndtw-3 because the problem was essentially one of technology. No \expndtw-4 matter how complex they are, technological problems can be \expndtw-3 solved unless they involve flat impossibilities. You can build \expndtw-1 a suspension bridge, send a man to Mars or wherever, con\-\expndtw2 struct cities beneath the sea.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 There are other problems, human problems. How do you \expndtw-1 build a bridge between people? How do you, send a better \expndtw1 man to Mars? How do you construct an anthill city that is \expndtw-4 not a bughouse? Money will not solve those problems. Rhet\-\expndtw-1 oric will not solve them. Technology will not solve them.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Therefore, Sam did not fool with them. He used them for \expndtw-1 protective coloration, but he did not kid himself.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He stuck to the art of the possible.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Oh yes, he had a dream.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 There was justice in it, of a sort. But human beings care \expndtw-1 nothing for justice. They look out for Number One.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Number One?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Sam permitted himself a brief, cold smile.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 They would tear him apart if they knew, all those billions \expndtw2 of Number Ones...\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\sb202\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 A day came when all the bits and pieces fell into place. \expndtw-1 The data came back, coded across the empty hundreds of millions of miles. The columns added up. The light turned \expndtw-3 green.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Sam was exultant, in a quiet sort of way. He had expected \expndtw1 it to work, of course. He had checked it all out countless \expndtw2 times. But that was theory, and Sam was a skeptic about \expndtw-1 theories.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 This was fact.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 It was ready. Not perfect, no-but that too had been an\-\expndtw-1 ticipated.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Ain't science wunnerful?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2117\li2357\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He could not stay inside, not when he was this close. He \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 had to get outside, taste what was left of freedom. At times \expndtw1 like these, it was not enough to know that it was there. He \expndtw0 had to \i see \i0 it.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He walked on the Estate.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Lois joined him, which was a pain in the clavicle but Sam \expndtw-1 did not allow her presence to destroy his mood. Lois had on one of her cunning Outdoor Suits. She always professed to \expndtw2 adore what she called Nature, but she walked as though \expndtw-2 every blade of grass were poison ivy.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 (Poison ivy had been extinct for decades, Lois would soon \expndtw-3 follow suit.)\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "It's so peaceful," Lois said. She usually said that here.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Rather to his own surprise, Sam answered her. He wanted \expndtw-1 to talk to somebody, to celebrate. Failing that, he talked to \expndtw-2 Lois. "No," he said. "Not really. It only seems peaceful be\-\expndtw1 cause we are observers, not part of it. And it \i is \i0 controlled, \expndtw-1 to some extent."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li29\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Lois looked at him sharply. It had been one of his longer \expndtw-6 speeches.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "See that cedar?" Sam pointed to it, knowing that she did \expndtw-2 not know a cedar from a cottonwood. "Tough little tree. It'll \expndtw0 grow in poor soil, it doesn't take much water. See how the \expndtw1 roots come up near the surface? It's brittle, though. Won't last long. That oak is crowding it, and it's got a century or \expndtw0 two to play with. See that little willow-there, the droopy \expndtw-2 one? It needs too much water and the drainage is wrong. It'll \expndtw0 never make it. Am I boring you?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "No," Lois said truthfully. She was too amazed to be bored.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "See the bunny rabbit?" Sam's voice lapsed into parody. \expndtw0 "See bunny run? He'd better run. Lots of things eat bunny \expndtw5 rabbits. Hawks, bobcats, wolves. Snakes eat little bun\-\expndtw-8 nies-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Oh, Sam."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 As if to prove his point, a beagle hound stuck his wet nose \expndtw0 out of the brush. His white-tipped tail wagged tentatively. \expndtw-3 His liquid eyes were pools of adoration, (Beagles were orig\-\expndtw0 inally bred as hunters. Remember?)\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li5\ri43\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Sam turned his back on the dog, "Man's best friend. The supreme opportunist. He figured the odds twenty thousand \expndtw-4 years ago and threw in with us. K-9, Secret Agent. Con. Fink. \expndtw-1 Surplus now. Dear old pal."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I don't understand you sometimes," Lois said with rare \expndtw-3 perception.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2131\li2352\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i\fs22 I\i0  \i don't understand them, either, \i0 Sam thought. \i Animals, \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\i not women. Little Forest Friends Nobody understands them. \expndtw3 We were too busy. There wasn't even a decent field study of \expndtw1 the chimpanzee until around 1930. Seventy years later there were no chimpanzees. We didn't bother with the animals that were not like men; who cared? We learned exactly nothing about kudus and bears, coons and possums, badgers and buf\-\expndtw2 falo. Too late now. They are gone or going, and so is their \expndtw-2 world.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Sam Gregg was not a sentimental man. He was a realist. \expndtw5 Still, the facts bothered him. It was hard not to know. He would never know, and that was that. There was no way.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 They walked along the trail together. (Arm in arm, lovely \expndtw1 couple, backbone of empire.) Sam was a little nervous. It had \expndtw3 been a long fight and-as they used to say-victory was at \expndtw2 hand.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 He felt a little like God and a lot like an old man.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 From the branches of a gnarled oak, a masked mother and \expndtw5 three small bandits watched them pass.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 There were ancient raccoon thoughts in the air.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 You are ready.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 So do it. Don't wobble.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Sam did it.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Sound dramatic?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 It was (in the very long run) and it wasn't (here and now). An extremely well-balanced, insulated, innocuous conveyor \expndtw3 left the main lab and hissed gently to the spaceport. A large gray metallic box was loaded into a shuttle ship and locked \expndtw5 into place. The box was ten feet square, and it was heavy. \expndtw3 It could have been much smaller and lighter-about the size \expndtw2 of a jigger glass-except for the refrigeration units, the elec\-\expndtw4 tronic circuits, the separation cubicles, and the protective \expndtw1 layers.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 The shuttle lifted to the space station. Strictly routine.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 The gray cube of metal was transferred very gingerly to a larger ship. She (that was surely the proper pronoun) was \expndtw3 a special ship, a swimmer of deep space. She was crammed \expndtw4 with expensive gear. Say, a billion dollars' worth. Maybe \expndtw-2 more.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 She took off. She was completely automated, controlled by \expndtw2 computers, powered by atomics.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li235\sl-197\slmult0\tx4646\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 There were no men on board.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li235\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The ship was never corning back.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 Sam?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2357\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He stayed home.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 There was nowhere for him to go.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 Remember?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 It is curious how a small gesture will offend some people.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 There was no more capital punishment, unless living on \expndtw2 earth was it, but good men and true were willing to make \expndtw-1 an exception in Sam's case.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "So you sunk twenty billion into it over a ten-year period," \expndtw-2 his chief lawyer said. He said it the same way he might have \expndtw1 asked, "So you think you're a kumquat, eh?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Give or take a few million. Of course, some of the basic research goes back more than ten years. If you figure all that \expndtw-1 in, it might go to twenty-two billion. Maybe twenty-three."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Never mind that." The lawyer groaned. He really did.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Lois was not happy and developed a case of severe fri\-\expndtw-2 gidity. She was not only married to a man confronting bank\-\expndtw1 ruptcy, but she was also the wife of a Master Criminal. It \expndtw-2 does imperil one's social position.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li34\ri14\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 (There was no way to keep it quiet, naturally, Sam had \expndtw-2 known that. Too many people were involved.)\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 They had a great time, the venom-spewers: senators and editorialists, presidents and kings, cops and commissions, \expndtw-1 professors and assorted hotshots. All the Good People.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li29\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Sam had. to put it mildly, violated a public trust. (Trans\-\expndtw1 lation: he hadn't spent his money on what \i they \i0 wanted.)\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li5\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He was guilty of a crime against humanity. (Judge and jury, definer of crime? Humanity. All heart.)\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 It did not matter in the least that twenty billion dollars \expndtw-3 (or twenty-two, or twenty-three, or a hundred) could not have \expndtw-1 saved the earth. Earth was finished, smothered by her most \expndtw1 illustrious spawn. It would take a few years yet, while she \expndtw-3 gasped for breath and filled the bedpan. But she was through.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Man had never cared overmuch for facts.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He believed what he wanted to believe.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 ("Things may be bad, but they are getting better. All we \expndtw-1 have to do is like be relevant, you know? Enforce the Law. \expndtw2 Consult the swami Have a hearing. Salvation through ar\-\expndtw0 chitecture. When the going gets tough the tough get going. \expndtw-2 All problems have solutions.")\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 There was one other thing that made Sam's sin inexcus\-\expndtw-4 able.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li235\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 You see, animals have no votes.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li230\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The defense?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2352\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 It was clear, simple, correct, and beyond dispute. It was \expndtw1 therefore doomed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 ("We'll give him a fair trial, then hang him.")\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Way down deep where convictions solidify, Big Man had \expndtw3 expected to meet his counterpart on other worlds. ("Ah, \expndtw2 Earthling, you surprise I speak your language so good.") He had failed. He had found only barren rocks at the end of the \expndtw0 road.\cf0\lang2057\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 From this, he had drawn a characteristically modest con\-\expndtw-1 clusion.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Man, he decided, was alone in the accessible universe.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 This was a slight error. There were primitive men who \expndtw2 would not have made it, but there were no more primitive \expndtw0 men.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw8 The plain truth was that it was \i Earth \i0 that was unique \expndtw1 and alone. Earth had produced life. Not just self-styled Num\-\expndtw5 ber One, not just Superprimate. No. He was a late arrival, the final guest.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 ("All these goodies just for \i me!")\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033 Alone? Man?\cf0\lang2057\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Well, not quite.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri24\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 There were a million different \i species \i0 of insects. (Get the \expndtw2 spray-gun, Henry.) Twenty thousand kinds of fish. (I got one, \expndtw5 I got one!) Nine thousand types of birds. (You can still see \expndtw0 a stuffed owl in a museum.) Fifteen thousand species of mam\-\expndtw6 mals. (You take this arrow, see, and fit the string into the \expndtw8 notch...)\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri24\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Alone? Sure, except for the kangaroos and bandicoots, \expndtw4 shrews and skunks, bats and elephants, armadillos and rab\-\expndtw1 bits, pigs and foxes, raccoons and whales, beavers and lions, \expndtw3 moose and mice, oryx and otter and opossum-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Oh well, \i them.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sb10\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5 Yes.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri5\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 They too had come from the earth. Incredible, each of \expndtw7 them. Important? Only if you happened to think that the \expndtw5 only known life in the universe was important.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Man didn't think so. Not him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Not the old perfected end-product of evolution.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 He didn't kill them all, of course. He hadn't been around \expndtw5 that long. The dinosaurs had managed to become extinct \expndtw4 without his help. There were others.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri38\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 He did pretty well, though. He could be efficient, give him \expndtw7 that.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2362\sl-202\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li53\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He started early. Remember the ground sloth, the mam-m\expndtw-3 oth, the mastodon? You don't? Odd.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 He kept at it. He was remarkably objective about it, really. \expndtw-2 He murdered his own kin as readily as the others. The orang h\expndtw-4 ad gone down the tube when Sam was a boy, the gorilla and t\expndtw1 he chimp and the gibbon a little later.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Sorry about that, gang.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 In time, he got them all. It was better than in the old days. \expndtw-1 He took no risks, dug no traps, fired no guns. He simply \expndtw-3 crowded them out. When there were billions upon billions of \expndtw2 naked apes stacked in layers over the earth, there was no \expndtw-2 room for anything else.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Goodbye, Old Paint,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 So long. Rover.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Farewell, Kitty-cat,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Nothing personal, you understand.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li24\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 All in the name of humanity. What higher motive can \expndtw-1 there be?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 This is a defense?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 What in hell did Sam do?\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 In hell, he did this:\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Sam Gregg decided that mankind could not be saved. Not \expndtw-1\i should \i0 not (although Sam, it must be confessed, did not get \expndtw0 all choked up at the thought of human flesh) but \i could \i0 not, \expndtw-1 It was too late, too late when Sam was born. Man had poi\-\expndtw0 soned his world and there were no fresh Earths,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li19\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Man could not survive on other planets, not without dras\-tic genetic modifications.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 And man would not change, not voluntarily.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 After all, he was perfect, wasn't he?\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi221\li19\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 That left the animals. Earth's other children, the ones \expndtw-2 pushed aside. The dumb ones. The losers. The powerless.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 You might call it the art of the possible.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi226\li10\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Did they matter? If they were the only life in the universe? \expndtw-6 Who knew? Who decided?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li5\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Well, there was Sam, A nut, probably. Still, he could play \expndtw0 God as well as the next man. He had the money.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Pick a world, then. Not Mars. Too close, and there were \expndtw2 still those ex-human beings running around there. Don't w\expndtw-1 ant to interfere with \i them.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi221\li5\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Sam chose Titan, the sixth moon of Saturn. It was plenty b\expndtw1 ig enough; it had a diameter of 3650 miles. It had an at\-\expndtw0 mosphere of sorts, mostly methane. He liked the name.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li221\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Besides, think of the view.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 It was beyond human engineering skill to convert Titan into a replica of Mother Earth in her better days. Tough, but \expndtw1 that's the way the spheroid rebounds.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 However, with atomic power generated on Titan a great \expndtw0 deal could be done. It was, in fact, titanic.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The life-support pods-enormous energy shields-made it \expndtw0 possible to create pockets in which breathable air could be \expndtw1 born. It just required heat and water and chemical triggers \expndtw-2 and doctored plants-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 A few little things.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 A bit of the old technological razzle-dazzle.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri86\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Men could not live there, even under the pods. Neither \expndtw2 could the animals that had once roamed the earth.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri96\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Sam's animals were different, though. He cut them to fit. \expndtw-2 That was one thing about genetics. When you knew enough about it, you couldmake alterations. Not many, perhaps. But \expndtw-3 enough.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Getting the picture?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li14\ri86\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Sam did not line the critters up two by two and load them \expndtw0 into the Ark. (Noah, indeed.) He could not save them all. \expndtw-2 Some were totally gone, some were too delicate, some were \expndtw-3 outside the range of Sam's compassion. (Who needs a million \expndtw-4 kinds of bugs?) He did what he could, within the time he had.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He sent sex cells, sperm and ova, one hundred sets for \expndtw0 each species. (Was that what was in the box? Yes, Junior.) \expndtw-2 Animals learn some things, some more than others, but most of what they do is born into them. Instinct, if you like. There \expndtw1 was a staggering amount of information in that little box.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The problem was to get it out.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Parents have their uses, sometimes.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri91\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 But robots will do, if you build them right. You can build \expndtw-4 a long, long program into a computer. You can stockpile food \expndtw-1 for a few years.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri96\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 So-get the joint ready. Then bring down the ship and \expndtw-2 reseal the pods. Activate-the mechanisms. Fertilize the eggs \expndtw-1 Subdivide the zygotes. Put out the incubators. Pill the pens.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 And turn 'em loose.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Look out, world.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 That was what Sam Gregg did with his money.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri101\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 They didn't actually execute him, the good people of Earth. \expndtw-3 There was not even a formal trial. They just confiscated what was left of his money and put him away in a Nice Place with \expndtw0 the other crazies.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2112\li2352\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 It would be pleasant to report that Sam died happy and \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 that his dust was peaceful in its urn. In fact, Sam was sorry \expndtw5 to go and he was even a little bitter.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li48\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 If he could have known somehow, he might-or might \expndtw2 not-have been more pleased.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri14\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Millions of lonely miles from the dead earth, she floated \expndtw6 there in the great nothing. Beneath the shimmering pods \expndtw2 that would last for thousands of years, a part of her was cool \expndtw4 rather than cold, softer than the naked rocks, flashed with \expndtw0 green.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li38\ri19\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Saturn hovered near the horizon, white and frozen and \expndtw-2 moonlike.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li34\ri24\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The ancient lifeways acted out their tiny dramas, strange \expndtw4 under an alien sky. They had changed little, most of them.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 There was one exception,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 It might have been the radiation.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li29\ri19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Then again, the raccoon had always been a clever animal. \expndtw5 He had adroit hands, and he could use them. He had alert \expndtw2 eyes, a quick intelligence. He could learn things, and on oc\-\expndtw3 casion he could pass on what he knew.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri24\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Within ten generations, he had fashioned a crude chopping \expndtw2 tool out of flaked stone.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Within twenty, he had built a fire.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li14\ri38\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 That beat man's record by a considerable margin, and the point was not lost on those who watched.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li14\ri38\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 A short time later, the dog showed up, out in the shadows \expndtw1 cast by the firelight. He whined. He thumped his shaggy tail. \expndtw0 He oozed friendship.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li14\ri38\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 The raccoons ignored him for a few nights. They huddled \expndtw2 together, dimply proud of what they had done. They thought \expndtw1 it over.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li14\ri43\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Eventually, one of the raccoons threw him a bloody bone, \expndtw4 and the dog came in.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sb206\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Don't like the ending?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 A trifle stark?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri38\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Is there no way we can communicate with them from out of the past? Can't we say something, a few words, now that we are finished?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li230\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Ah, man. Ever the wishful thinker.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Still talking.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 Sam had tried. He was human; he made the gesture.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2117\li2342\ri58\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 There was a small plaque still visible on the outside of the \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 silent ship that had brought them here. It was traditional in \expndtw0 spaceflights, but Sam had done it anyhow.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 It could not be read, of course.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 It could not be deciphered, ever.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 But it was there.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 It said the only words that had seemed appropriate to Sam:\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li235\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\i Good luck, old friends.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\cf1\lang1033\fs75 4\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sb384\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\b\fs33 HUMANITY DESTROYED\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\b0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\ri14\sb341\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Earth might maintain its physical structure reasonably in\-\expndtw4 tact and still become uninhabitable in a "Catastrophe of the Fourth Class."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Of course, the least stable portion of the Earth is \i its \i0 crust, which is divided into half a dozen large plates and a number \expndtw4 of smaller ones. These move against each other, crushing \expndtw3 together or pulling apart at the joints, or One slipping under \expndtw1 the other-prevented from destroying us only by the extreme \expndtw2 slowness of the process. And yet for drama's sake, we can \expndtw3 imagine the changes becoming more rapid ("The New At\-\expndtw5 lantis" by Ursula K. Le Guin),\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Closer to reality-is the fact that over the last million years, \expndtw4 our planet has been undergoing periodic ice ages. It seems \expndtw3 almost certain that there will be additional ice ages and that the glaciers will come grinding down again in some tens of thousands of years. What if the next ice age is a particularly \expndtw4 bad one? And what will be left to bear testimony to the ex\-\expndtw0 istence of humanity ("History Lesson" by Arthur C. Clarke)?\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 Nor may it be inanimate changes that will destroy hu\-\expndtw2 manity. It may be other life forms. To be sure, human beings have established their dominion over the Earth fas they were \expndtw3 directed to do in the first chapter of Genesis) but other life forms may evolve and grow more intelligent; or life forms \expndtw2 may come across the void of space ("Seeds of the Dusk" by Raymond Z. Gallun).\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The difficulty might be not with anything intelligent but \expndtw4 with our great enemy, the pathogenic microorganism. The greatest catastrophe humanity ever suffered was the Black \expndtw5 Death in the fourteenth century. As late as the mid-1970s, \expndtw2 "Legionnaire's disease" put a fright into us. What else might \expndtw3 happen ("Dark Benediction" by Walter M. Miller, Jr.)?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li1134\ri1445\sl-475\slmult0\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw15\b\fs26 The New Atlantis \expndtw-21\b0 URSULA K. LE GUIN\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li14\sb427\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Coming back from my Wilderness Week I sat by an odd sort \expndtw1 of man in the bus. For a long time we didn't talk; I was \expndtw-1 mending stockings and he was reading. Then the bus broke down a few miles outside Gresham. Boiler trouble, the way \expndtw0 it generally is when the driver insists on trying to go over \expndtw-2 thirty. It was a Supersonic Superscenic Deluxe Longdistance \expndtw-3 coal-burner, with Home Comfort, that means a toilet, and the \expndtw0 seats were pretty comfortable, at least those that hadn't yet \expndtw-4 worked loose from their bolts, so everybody waited inside the bus; besides, it was raining. We began talking, the way people \expndtw-1 do when there's a breakdown and a wait. He held up his pamphlet and tapped it-he was a dry-looking man with a \expndtw-2 schoolteacherish way of using his hands-and said, "This is \expndtw0 interesting. I've been reading that a new continent is rising from the depths of the sea."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The blue stockings were hopeless. You have to have some\-\expndtw-1 thing besides holes to darn onto. "Which sea?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "They're not sure yet. Most specialists think the Atlantic. \expndtw-3 But there's evidence it may be happening in the Pacific, too."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li14\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Won't the oceans get a little crowded?" I said, not taking \expndtw-1 it seriously. I was a bit snappish, because of the breakdown \expndtw-2 and because those blue stockings had been good warm ones.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He tapped the pamphlet again and shook his head, quite \expndtw1 serious. "No," he said. "The old continents are sinking, to \expndtw-2 make room for the new. You can see that that is happening."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 You certainly can. Manhattan Island is now under eleven \expndtw-1 feet of water at low tide, and there are oyster beds in Ghir-\expndtw1 ardelli Square,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri14\sb10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "I thought that was because the oceans are rising from \expndtw-1 polar melt."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2112\li2362\ri19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 He shook his head again. "That is a factor. Due to the \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 greenhouse effect of pollution, indeed Antarctica may become \expndtw-1 inhabitable. But climatic factors will not explain the emerg\-\expndtw-3 ence of the new-or, possibly, very old-continents in the \expndtw0 Atlantic and Pacific." He went on explaining about conti\-\expndtw-1 nental drift, but I liked the idea of inhabiting Antarctica and \expndtw-5 daydreamed about it for a while. I thought of it as very empty, \expndtw-4 very quiet, all white and blue, with a faint golden glow north\-\expndtw-1 ward from the unrising sun behind the long peak of Mount \expndtw-3 Erebus. There were a few people there; they were very quiet, too, and wore white tie and tails. Some of them carried oboes \expndtw0 and violas. Southward the white land went up in a long si\-\expndtw-1 lence toward the Pole.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi274\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Just the opposite, in fact, of the Mount Hood Wilderness \expndtw0 Area. It had been a tiresome vacation: The other women in \expndtw-1 the dormitory were all right, but it was macaroni for break\-fast, and there were so many organized sports. I had looked \expndtw1 forward to the hike up to the National Forest Preserve, the \expndtw2 largest forest left in the United States, but the trees didn't \expndtw0 look at all the way they do in the postcards and brochures \expndtw1 and Federal Beautification Bureau advertisements. They were spindly, and they all had little signs on saying which \expndtw0 union they had been planted by. There were actually a lot more green picnic tables and cement Men's and Women's \expndtw1 than there were trees. There was an electrified fence all \expndtw-4 around the forest to keep out unauthorized persons. The forest \expndtw0 ranger talked about mountain jays, "bold little robbers," he \expndtw-4 said, "who will come and snatch the sandwich from your very \expndtw3 hand," but I didn't see any, Perhaps because that was the \expndtw-6 weekly Watch Those Surplus Calories! Day for all the women, \expndtw-3 and so we didn't have any sandwiches. If I'd seen a mountain \expndtw-1 jay I might have snatched the sandwich from his very hand, \expndtw-5 who knows. Anyhow it was an exhausting week, and I wished \expndtw-1 I'd stayed home and practiced, even though I'd have lost a week's pay because staying home and practicing the viola doesn't count as planned implementation of recreational lei\-\expndtw0 sure as defined by the Federal Union of Unions.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 When I came back from my Antarctican expedition, the \expndtw-3 man was reading again, and I got a look at his pamphlet; and \expndtw1 that was the odd part of it. The pamphlet was called "In\-\expndtw-2 creasing Efficiency in Public Accountant Training Schools," \expndtw-1 and I could see from the one paragraph I got a glance at that \expndtw0 there was nothing about new continents emerging from the ocean depths in it-nothing at all.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2117\li2357\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Then we had to get out and walk on into Gresham, because \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li10\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 they had decided that the best thing for us all to do was get onto the Greater Portland Area Rapid Public Transit Lines, \expndtw1 since there had been so many breakdowns that the charter \expndtw-2 bus company didn't have any more buses to send out to pick \expndtw-1 us up. The walk was wet, and rather dull, except when we \expndtw1 passed the Cold Mountain Commune. They have a wall \expndtw-1 around it to keep out unauthorized persons, and a big neon \expndtw-3 sign out front saying COLD MOUNTAIN COMMUNE and \expndtw0 there were some people in authentic jeans and ponchos by \expndtw-2 the highway selling macrame belts and sandcast candies and \expndtw-1 soybean bread to the tourists. In Gresham, I took the 4:40 GPARPTL Superjet Flyer train to Burnside and East 230th, \expndtw-3 and then walked to 217th and got the bus to the Goldschmidt \expndtw-1 Overpass, and transferred to the shuttlebus, but it had boiler \expndtw0 trouble, so I didn't reach the downtown transfer point until \expndtw-1 ten after eight, and the buses go on a once-an-hour schedule \expndtw-2 at 8:00, so I got a meatless hamburger at the Longhorn Inch-Thick Steak House Dinerette and caught the nine o'clock bus \expndtw-3 and got home about ten. When I let myself into the apartment \expndtw3 I flipped the switch to turn on the lights, but there still \expndtw-3 weren't any. There had been a power outage in West Portland \expndtw1 for three weeks. So I went feeling about for the candles in the dark, and it was a minute or so before I noticed that \expndtw-3 somebody was lying on my bed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-192\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 I panicked, and tried again to turn the lights on.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri14\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 It was a man, lying there in a long thin heap. I thought \expndtw-1 a burglar had got in somehow while I was away and died. I opened the door so I could get out quick or at least my yells \expndtw-3 could be heard, and then I managed not to shake long enough \expndtw1 to strike a match, and lighted the candle, and came a little \expndtw-1 closer to the bed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri14\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The light disturbed him. He made a sort of snorting in his \expndtw3 throat and turned his head. I saw it was a stranger, but I \expndtw-1 knew his eyebrows, then the breadth of his closed eyelids, \expndtw1 then I saw my husband.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri29\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He woke up while I was standing there over him with the \expndtw2 candle in my hand. He laughed and said still half-asleep, \expndtw-1 "Ah, Psyche! From the regions which are holy land."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri24\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Neither of us made much fuss. It was unexpected, but it \expndtw-1 did seem so natural for him to be there, after all, much more \expndtw0 natural than for him not be there, and he was too tired to be \expndtw1 very emotional. We lay there together in the dark, and he \expndtw-2 explained that they had released him from the Rehabilitation \expndtw1 Camp early because he had injured his back in an accident \expndtw-2 in the gravel quarry, and they were afraid it might get worse.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2357\sl-192\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sl-187\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 If he died there it wouldn't be good publicity abroad, since \expndtw-4 there have been some nasty rumors about deaths from illness in\expndtw0  the Rehabilitation Camps and the Federal Medical As\-\expndtw-3 sociation Hospitals, and there are scientists abroad who have h\expndtw-5 eard of Simon, since somebody published his proof of Gold-\expndtw-1 bach's Hypothesis in Peking, So they let him out early, with \expndtw-4 eight dollars in his pocket, which is what he had in his pocket \expndtw-1 when they arrested him, which made it, of course, fair. He had walked and hitched home from Coeur D'Alene, Idaho, \expndtw-2 with a couple of days in jail in Walla Walla for being caught \expndtw-1 hitchhiking. He almost fell asleep telling me this, and when he had told me, he did fall asleep. He needed a change of \expndtw2 clothes and a bath but I didn't want to wake him. Besides, \expndtw-2 I was tired, too. We lay side by side and his head was on my arm. I don't suppose that I have ever been so happy. No; was it happiness? Something wider and darker, more like knowl\-\expndtw-1 edge, more like the night: joy.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li485\ri29\sb360\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\i\fs21 It was dark for so long, so very long. We were all blind. \expndtw-2 And there was the cold, a vast, unmoving, heavy cold. \expndtw-4 We could not move at all. We did not move. We did not \expndtw-6 speak. Our mouths were closed, pressed shut by the cold and by the weight. Our eyes were pressed shut. Our limbs were held still. Our minds were held still. For how long? \expndtw1 There was no length of time; how long is death? And \expndtw-4 is one dead only after living, or before life as well? Cer\-\expndtw-3 tainly we thought, if we thought anything, that we were \expndtw-4 dead; but if we had ever been alive, we had forgotten it.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li475\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\i\fs21 There was a change. It must have been the pressure \expndtw-2 that changed first, although we did not know it. The \expndtw-6 eyelids are sensitive to touch. They must have been weary \expndtw-1 of being shut. When the pressure upon them weakened \expndtw-6 a little, they opened. But there was no way for us \i0 to \i know \expndtw-4 that. It was too cold for us to feel anything. There was \expndtw-3 nothing to be seen. There was black.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi302\li398\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\i\fs21 But then-"'then," for the event created time, created \expndtw-4  before and after, near and far, now and then\i0 -\i "then" \expndtw-2 there was the light. One light. One small, strange light \expndtw-1 that passed slowly, at what distance we could not tell. \expndtw-2 A small, greenish white, slightly blurred point of ra\-\expndtw-3 diance, passing.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li442\ri77\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\i\fs21 Our eyes were certainly open, "then," for we saw it. We saw the moment. The moment in a point of light. Whether in darkness or in the field of all light, the mo-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\i ment is small, and moves, but not quickly. And "then" \expndtw-1 it is gone.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li38\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\i It did not occur to us that there might be another \expndtw-3 moment. There was no reason to assume that there might \expndtw1 be more than one. One was marvel enough: that in all \expndtw-2 the field of the dark, in the cold, heavy, dense, moveless, \expndtw-1 timeless, placeless, boundless black, there should have occurred, once, a small slightly blurred, moving light! \expndtw0 Time need be created only once, we thought.\cf0\lang2057\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\i But we were mistaken. The difference between one and more than one is all the difference in the world. Indeed, that difference is the world.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\i The light returned.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i The same light, or another one? There was no telling.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi226\li38\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\i But, "this time," we wondered about the light: Was \expndtw0 it small and near to us, or large and far away? Again \expndtw-1 there was no telling; but there was something about the \expndtw0 way it moved, a trace of hesitation, a tentative quality, that did not seem proper to anything large and remote. \expndtw-2 The stars, for instance. We began to remember the stars.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\i The stars had never hesitated.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li24\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\i Perhaps the noble certainty of their gait had been a \expndtw-2 mere effect of distance. Perhaps in fact they had hurtled \expndtw0 wildly, enormous furnace-fragments of a primal bomb \expndtw1 thrown through the cosmic dark; but time and distance \expndtw0 soften all agony. If the universe, as seems likely, began \expndtw-2 with an act of destruction, the "Stars we had used to see \expndtw1 told no tales of it. They had been implacably serene.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\li5\ri24\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i The planets, however... We began to remember the \expndtw0 planets. They had suffered certain changes both of ap\-\expndtw-3 pearance and of course. At certain times of the year Mars \expndtw-2 would reverse its direction and go backward through the \expndtw1 stars. Venus had been brighter and less bright as she \expndtw-1 went through her phases of crescent, full, and wane. \expndtw0 Mercury had shuddered like a skidding drop of rain on \expndtw-2 the sky flushed with daybreak. The light we now watched \expndtw3 had that erratic, trembling quality. We saw it, unmis\-\expndtw-2 takably, change direction and go backward. It then grew smaller and fainter; blinked\i0 -\i an eclipse?\i0 -\i and slowly disappeared.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\i Slowly, but not slowly enough for a planet.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri24\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i Then-the third "then!"-arrived the indubitable and \expndtw1 positive Wonder of the World, the Magic Trick, watch \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li552\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\i now, watch, you will not believe your eyes, mama, mama, \expndtw-4 look what I can do\i0 -\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li533\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\i Seven lights in a row, proceeding fairly rapidly, with a darting movement, from left to right. Proceeding less \expndtw-2 rapidly from right to left, two dimmer, greenish lights. \expndtw-3 Two-lights halt, blink, reverse course, proceed hastily \expndtw0 and in a wavering manner from left to right. Seven-\expndtw-2 lights increase speed, and catch up. Two-lights flash \expndtw-4 desperately, flicker, and are gone.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li514\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\i Seven-lights hang still for some while, then merge \expndtw-2 gradually into one streak, veering away, and little by \expndtw-1 little vanish into the immensity of the dark.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\i But in the dark now are growing other lights, many\cf0\lang2057\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\i  of them: lamps, dots, rows, scintillations\i0 -\i some near at\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\i hand, some far. Like the stars, yes, but not stars. It is\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\i not the great Existences we are seeing, but only the little\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri4162\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\i lives.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri14\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3 In the morning Simon told me something about the Camp, \expndtw2 but not until after he had had me check the apartment for \expndtw-1 bugs. I thought at first he had been given behavior mod and gone paranoid. We never had been infested. And I'd been \expndtw0 living alone for a year and a half; surely they didn't want to \expndtw-3 hear me talking to myself? But he said, "They may have been \expndtw-2 expecting me to come here."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 "But they let you go free!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li14\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2 He just lay there and laughed at me. So I checked every\-\expndtw-4 where we could think of. I didn't find any bugs, but it did look \expndtw0 as if somebody had gone through the bureau drawers while I was away in the Wilderness. Simon's papers were all at \expndtw1 Max's, so that didn't matter. I made tea on the Primus, and \expndtw0 washed and shaved Simon with the extra hot water in the \expndtw-1 kettle-he had a thick beard and wanted to get rid of it be\-\expndtw-2 cause of the lice he had brought from Camp-and while we \expndtw0 were doing that he told me about the Camp. In fact he told me very little, but not much was necessary.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2 He had lost about 20 pounds. As he only weighed 140 to \expndtw0 start with, this left little to go on with. His knees and wrist bones stuck out like rocks under the skin. His feet were all \expndtw-3 swollen and chewed-looking from the Camp boots; he hadn't \expndtw0 dared take the boots off, the last three days of walking, be\-\expndtw-2 cause he was afraid he wouldn't be able to get them back on. When he had to move or sit up so I could wash him, he shut \expndtw-3 his eyes.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2347\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Am I really here?" he asked. "Am I here?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Yes," I said. "You are here. What I don't understand is \expndtw-2 how you got here."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Oh, it wasn't bad so long as I kept moving. All you need \expndtw-5 is to know where you're going-to have someplace to go. You \expndtw-4 know, some of the people in Camp, if they'd let them go, they \expndtw-1 wouldn't have had that. They couldn't have gone anywhere. \expndtw-5 Keeping moving was the main thing. See, my back's all seized \expndtw-4 up, now."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 When he had to get up to go to the bathroom he moved \expndtw-2 like a ninety-year-old. He couldn't stand straight, but was all \expndtw-1 bent out of shape, and shuffled. I helped him put on clean \expndtw-2 clothes. When he lay down on the bed again, a sound of pain \expndtw-1 came out of him, like tearing thick paper. I went around the room putting things away. He asked me to come sit by him \expndtw-4 and said I was going to drown him if I went on crying. "You'll \expndtw1 submerge the entire North American continent," he said. I \expndtw-1 can't remember what he said, but he made me laugh finally. \expndtw1 It is hard to remember things Simon says, and hard not to laugh when he says them. This is not merely the partiality \expndtw-1 of affection: He makes everybody laugh. I doubt that he in\-\expndtw2 tends to. It is just that a mathematician's mind works dif\-\expndtw0 ferently from other people's. Then when they laugh, that \expndtw-1 pleases him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 It was strange, and it is strange, to be thinking about \expndtw1 "him," the man I have known for ten years, the same man, \expndtw-1 while "he" lay there changed out of recognition, a different \expndtw0 man. It is enough to make you understand why most lan\-\expndtw-2 guages have a word like "soul." There are various degrees of death, and time spares us none of them. Yet something en\-\expndtw-1 dures, for which a word is needed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 I said what I had not been able to say for a year and a \expndtw0 half: "I was afraid they'd brainwash you."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He said, "Behavior mod is expensive. Even just the drugs. \expndtw0 They save it mostly for the VIPs. But I'm afraid they got a notion I might be important after all. I got questioned a lot \expndtw-1 the last couple of months. About my 'foreign contacts.'" He \expndtw0 snorted. "The stuff that got published abroad, I suppose. So \expndtw2 I want to be careful and make sure it's just a Camp again \expndtw1 next time, and not a Federal Hospital."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Simon, were they... are they cruel, or just righteous?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He did not answer for a while. He did not want to answer. \expndtw-1 He knew what I was asking. He knew by what thread hangs \expndtw-2 hope, the sword, above our heads.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Some of them..." he said at last, mumbling.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Some of them had been cruel. Some of them had enjoyed \expndtw0 their work. You cannot blame everything on society,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Prisoners, as well as guards," he said.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 You cannot blame everything on the enemy.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li53\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Some of them, Belle," he said with energy, touching my hand-"some of them, there were men like gold there-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The thread is tough; you cannot cut it with one stroke.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "What have you been playing?" he asked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Forrest, Schubert."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "With the quartet?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Trio, now. Janet went to Oakland with a new lover."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Ah, poor Max."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "It's just as well, really. She isn't a good pianist."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi269\li10\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 I make Simon laugh, too, though I don't intend to. We \expndtw0 talked until it was past time for me to go to work. My shift since the Full Employment Act last year is ten to two. I am \expndtw-1 an inspector in a recycled paper bag factory. I have never \expndtw0 rejected a bag yet; the electronic inspector catches all the \expndtw-2 defective ones first. It is a rather depressing job. But it's only \expndtw2 four hours a day, and it takes more time than that to go \expndtw-1 through all the lines and physical and mental examinations, \expndtw-4 and fill out all the forms, and talk to all the welfare counselors and inspectors every week in order to qualify as Unemployed, \expndtw-3 and then line up every day for the ration stamps and the dole. \expndtw0 Simon thought I ought to go to work as usual. I tried to, but \expndtw1 I couldn't. He had felt very hot to the touch when I kissed \expndtw-2 him goed-bye. I went instead and got a black-market doctor. \expndtw0 A girl at the factory had recommended her, for an abortion, \expndtw1 if I ever wanted one without going through the regulation \expndtw0 two years of sex-depressant drugs the fed-meds make you take when they give you an abortion. She was a jeweler's \expndtw-1 assistant in a shop on Alder Street, and the girl said she was \expndtw-3 convenient because if you didn't have enough cash you could \expndtw-4 leave something in pawn at the jeweler's as payment. Nobody \expndtw-2 ever does have enough cash, and of course credit cards aren't \expndtw1 worth much on the black market.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The doctor was willing to come at once, so we rode home \expndtw0 on the bus together. She gathered very soon that Simon and \expndtw1 I were married, and it was funny to see her look at us and \expndtw-3 smile like a cat. Some people love illegality for its own sake. \expndtw-2 Men, more often than women. It's men who make laws, and \expndtw0 enforce them, and break them, and think the whole perfor\-\expndtw1 mance is wonderful. Most women would rather just ignore\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 them. You could see that this woman, like a man, actually \expndtw5 enjoyed breaking them. That may have been what put her \expndtw2 into an illegal business in the first place, a preference for the \expndtw6 shady side. But there was more to it than that. No doubt \expndtw2 she'd wanted to be a doctor, too; and the Federal Medical Association doesn't admit women into the medical schools. \expndtw3 She probably got her training as some other doctor's private \expndtw2 pupil, under the counter. Very much as Simon learned math\-\expndtw1 ematics, since the universities don't teach much but Business \expndtw2 Administration and Advertising and Media Skills any more. \expndtw3 However she learned it, she seemed to know her stuff. She \expndtw1 fixed up a kind of homemade traction device for Simon very \expndtw3 handily and informed him that if he did much more walking \expndtw2 for two months he'd be crippled the rest of his life, but if he \expndtw3 behaved himself he'd just be more or less lame. It isn't the kind of thing you'd expect to be grateful for being told, but we both were. Leaving, she gave me a bottle of about two \expndtw4 hundred plain white pills, unlabeled. "Aspirin," she said. \expndtw2 "He'll be in a good deal of pain off and on for weeks."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 I looked at the bottle. I had never seen aspirin before, only \expndtw2 the Super-Buffered Pane-Gon and the Triple-Power N-L-G-\expndtw4 Zic and the Extra-Strength Apansprin with the miracle in\-\expndtw2 gredient more doctors recommend, which the fed-meds al\-ways give you prescriptions for, to be filled at your FMA-\expndtw5 approved private enterprise friendly drugstore at the low, \expndtw2 low prices established by the Pure Food and Drug Admin\-\expndtw4 istration in order to inspire competitive research.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Aspirin," the doctor repeated. "The miracle ingredient \expndtw1 more doctors recommend." She cat-grinned again. I think she \expndtw2 liked us because we were living in sin. That bottle of black-\expndtw1 market aspirin was probably worth more than the old Navajo \expndtw3 bracelet I pawned for her fee.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 I went out again to register Simon as 'temporarily domi\-ciled at my address and to apply for Temporary Unemploy\-ment Compensation ration stamps for him. They, only give \expndtw1 them to you for two weeks and you have to come every day; \expndtw4 but to register him as Temporarily Disabled meant getting \expndtw3 the signatures of two fed-meds, and I thought I'd rather put \expndtw5 that off for a while. It took three hours to go through the lines and get the forms he would have to fill out, and to \expndtw6 answer the 'crats' questions about why he wasn't there in \expndtw1 person. They smelled something fishy. Of course it's hard for \expndtw4 them to prove that two people are married and aren't just adultering if you move now and then and your friends help\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 out by sometimes registering one of you as living at their address; but they had all the back files on both of us and it was obvious that we had been around each other for a sus\-piciously long time. The State really does make things aw\-\expndtw-2 fully hard for itself. It must have been simpler to enforce the \expndtw0 laws back when marriage was legal and adultery was what got you into trouble. They only had to catch you once. But \expndtw-4 I'll bet people broke the law just as often then as they do now.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi274\li446\ri10\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\i\fs21 The lantern-creatures came close enough at last that \expndtw-3 we could see not only their light, but their bodies in. the \expndtw-2 illumination of their light. They were not pretty. They \expndtw-5 were dark colored, most often a dark red, and they were \expndtw-3 all mouth. They ate one another whole. Light \expndtw-2 light all swallowed together in the vaster mouth of the \expndtw0 darkness. They moved slowly, for nothing, however small and hungry, could move fast under that weight, \expndtw-2 in that cold. Their eyes, round with fear, were never \expndtw-4 closed. Their bodies were tiny and bony behind the gap\-\expndtw-6 ing jaws. They wore queer, ugly decorations on their lips \expndtw-4 and skulls: fringes, serrated wattles, featherlike fronds, gauds, bangles, lures. Poor little sheep of the deep pas\-\expndtw-5 tures! Poor ragged, hunch-jawed dwarfs squeezed to the \expndtw-2 bone by the weight of the darkness, chilled to the bone \expndtw-3 by the cold of the darkness, tiny monsters burning with \expndtw-1 bright hunger, who brought us bock to life!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li446\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\i\fs21 Occasionally, in the wan, sparse illumination of one \expndtw-6 of the lantern-creatures, we caught a momentary glimpse \expndtw-4 of other, large, unmoving shapes: the barest suggestion, \expndtw-2 off in the distance, not of a wall, nothing so solid and certain as a wall, but of a surface, an angle... Was it \expndtw-9 there?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li432\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\i\fs21 Or something would glitter, faint, far off, far down. \expndtw-2 There was no use trying to make out what it might be. \expndtw-3 Probably it was only a fleck of sediment, mud or mica, disturbed by a struggle between the lantern-creatures, \expndtw-5 flickering like a bit of diamond dust as it rose and settled \expndtw-1 slowly. In any case, we could not move to go see what \expndtw-5 it was. We had not even the cold, narrow freedom of the \expndtw-2 lantern-creatures. We were immobilized, borne down, \expndtw-1 still shadows among the half-guessed shadow walls. \expndtw-6 Were we there?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li442\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\i\fs21 The lantern-creatures showed no awareness of us. \expndtw-4 They passed before us, among us, perhaps even through \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li509\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 us-\i it was impossible to be sure. They were not afraid, or curious.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li494\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\i Once something a little larger than a hand came \expndtw-1 crawling near, and for a moment we saw quite distinctly \expndtw-3 the clean angle where the foot of a wall rose from the \expndtw2 pavement, in the glow cast by the crawling creature, \expndtw-2 which was covered with a foliage of plumes, each plume \expndtw4 dotted with many tiny, bluish paints of light. We saw \expndtw2 the pavement beneath the creature and the wall beside \expndtw1 it, heartbreaking in its exact, clear linearity, its oppo\-sition to all that was fluid, random, vast, and void. We saw the creature's claws, slowly reaching out and re\-\expndtw0 tracting like small stiff fingers, touch the wall. Its plum\-\expndtw1 age of light quivering, it dragged itself along and van\-\expndtw2 ished behind the corner of the wall.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li494\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\i So we knew that the wall was there; and that it was \expndtw1 an outer wall, a housefront, perhaps, or the side of one \expndtw0 of the towers of the city.\cf0\lang2057\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li499\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i We remembered the towers. We remembered the city. \expndtw-2 We had forgotten it. We had forgotten who we were; but \expndtw1 we remembered the city, now.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri5\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 When I got home, the FBI had already been there. The computer at the police precinct where I registered Simon's \expndtw5 address must have flashed it right over to the computer at \expndtw3 the FBI building. They had questioned Simon for about an \expndtw1 hour, mostly about what he had been doing during the twelve \expndtw2 days it took him to get from the Camp to Portland. I suppose \expndtw5 they thought he had flown to Peking or something. Having \expndtw2 a police record in Walla Walla for hitchhiking helped him establish his story. He told me that one of them had gone to \expndtw1 the bathroom. Sure enough I found a bug stuck on the top of \expndtw3 the bathroom door frame. I left it, as we figured it's really better to leave it when you know you have one, than to take \expndtw6 it off and then never be sure they haven't planted another \expndtw2 one you don't know about. As Simon said, if we felt we had \expndtw1 to say something unpatriotic we could always flush the toilet \expndtw6 at the same time.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 I have a battery radio-there are so many work stoppages \expndtw-1 because of power failures, and days the water has to be boiled, \expndtw0 and so on, that you really have to have a radio to save wasting \expndtw2 time and dying of typhoid-and he turned it on while I was making supper on the Primus. The six o'clock All-American \expndtw9 Broadcasting Company news announcer announced that\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2323\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 peace was at hand in Uruguay, the president's confidential \expndtw-1 aide having been seen to smile at a passing blonde as he left \expndtw0 the 613th day of the secret negotiations in a villa outside Katmandu. The war in Liberia was going well; the enemy \expndtw-1 said they had shot down seventeen American planes but the \expndtw-2 Pentagon said we had shot down twenty-two enemy planes, \expndtw1 and the capital city-I forget its name, but it hasn't been \expndtw0 inhabitable for seven years anyway-was on the verge of \expndtw-2 being recaptured by the forces of freedom. The police action in Arizona was also successful. The Neo-Birch insurgents in \expndtw-1 Phoenix cauld not hold out much longer against the massed \expndtw1 might of the American army and air force, since their un\-\expndtw0 derground supply of small tactical nukes from the Weath\-\expndtw-1 ermen in Los Angeles had been cut off. Then there was an advertisement for Ped-Cred cards, and a commercial for the Supreme Court: "Take your legal troubles to the Nine Wise \expndtw-3 Men!" Then there was something about why tariffs had gone up, and a report from the stock market, which had just closed \expndtw-4 at over two thousand, and a commercial for U.S. Government \expndtw-2 canned water, with a catchy little tune: "Don't be sorry when \expndtw2 you drink/It's not as healthy as you think/Don't you think \expndtw-4 you really ought to/Drink coo-ool, puu-uure U.S.G. water?"- \expndtw-1 with three sopranos in close harmony on the last line. Then, just as the battery began to give out and his voice was dying \expndtw0 away into a faraway tiny whisper, the announcer seemed to be saying something about a new continent emerging.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "What was that?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "I didn't hear," Simon said, lying with his eyes shut and \expndtw-1 his face pale and sweaty. I gave him two aspirins before we \expndtw1 ate. He ate little, and fell asleep while I was washing the \expndtw0 dishes in the bathroom. I had been going to practice, but a \expndtw2 viola is fairly wakeful in a one-room apartment. I read for \expndtw-2 a while instead. It was a best seller Janet had given me when \expndtw1 she left. She thought it was very good, but then she likes Franz Liszt too. I don't read much since the libraries were \expndtw-4 closed down, it's too hard to get books; all you can buy is best \expndtw0 sellers. I don't remember the title of this one, the cover just \expndtw-1 said "Ninety Million Copies in Print!!!" It was about small\-\expndtw0 town sex life in the last century, the dear old 1970s when \expndtw-1 there weren't any problems and life was so simple and nos\-\expndtw0 talgic. The author squeezed all the naughty thrills he could \expndtw2 out of the fact that all the main characters were married. I \expndtw0 looked at the end and saw that all the married couples shot \expndtw-4 each other after all their children became schizophrenic hook-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li10\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 ers, except for one brave pair that divorced and then leapt \expndtw-2 into bed together with a clear-eyed pair of government-em\-\expndtw2 ployed lovers for eight pages of healthy group sex as a \expndtw-1 brighter future dawned. I went to bed then, too. Simon was \expndtw1 hot, but sleeping quietly. His breathing was like the sound \expndtw-2 of soft waves far away, and I went out to the dark sea on the \expndtw-3 sound of them.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 I used to go out to the dark sea, often, as a child, falling \expndtw1 asleep. I had almost forgotten it with my waking mind. As a child all I had to do was stretch out and think, "the dark \expndtw-2 sea ... the dark sea \expndtw20 ..."\expndtw-2  and soon enough I'd be there, in the \expndtw0 great depths, rocking. But after I grew up it only happened \expndtw-2 rarely, as a great gift. To know the abyss of the darkness and \expndtw-1 not to fear it, to entrust oneself to it and whatever may arise \expndtw0 from it-what greater gift?\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li466\ri82\sb202\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 We \i watched the tiny lights come and go around us, \expndtw0 and doing so, we gained a sense of space and of direc\-\expndtw3 tion\i0 -\i near and far, at least, and higher and lower. It \expndtw-1 was that sense of space that allowed us to became aware of the currents. Space was no longer entirely still around \expndtw3 us, suppressed by the enormous pressure of its own \expndtw-2 weight. Very dimly we were aware that the cold darkness \expndtw1 moved, slowly, softly, pressing against us a little for a long time, then ceasing, in \i0 a \i vast oscillation. The empty \expndtw-1 darkness flowed slowly along our unmoving unseen bod\-\expndtw1 ies; along them, past them; perhaps through them; we could not tell.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li461\ri96\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\i Where did they come from, those dim, slow, vast tides? \expndtw1 What pressure or attraction stirred the deeps to these \expndtw-1 slow drifting movements? We could not understand that; \expndtw-2 we could only feel their touch against us, but in straining our sense to guess their origin or end, we became aware \expndtw2 of something else: something out there in the darkness \expndtw1 of the great currents: sounds. We listened. We heard.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li461\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\i So our sense of space sharpened and localized to a sense of place. For sound is local, as sight is not. Sound \expndtw1 is delimited by silence; and it does not rise out of the \expndtw-1 silence unless it is fairly close, both in space and in time. \expndtw0 Though we stand where once the singer stood we cannot hear the voice singing; the-years have carried it off on \expndtw2 their tides, submerged it. Sound is a fragile thing, a \expndtw1 tremor, as delicate as life itself. We may see the stars, but we cannot hear them. Even were the hollowness of \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li67\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\i outer space an atmosphere, an ether that transmitted the waves of sound, we could not hear the stars; they are too far away. At most if we listened we might hear our own \expndtw-1 sun, all the mighty, roiling, exploding storm of its burn\-\expndtw0 ing, as a whisper at the edge of hearing.\cf0\lang2057\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li72\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\i A sea wave laps one's feet: It is the shock wave of a \expndtw-2 volcanic eruption on the far side of the world. But one \expndtw-1 hears nothing.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li67\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i A red light flickers on the horizon: It is the reflection \expndtw-1 in smoke of a city on the distant mainland, burning. But one hears nothing.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i Only on the slopes of the volcano? in the suburbs of \expndtw1 the city, does one begin to hear the deep thunder, and \expndtw-1 the high voices crying.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li53\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i Thus, when we became aware that we were hearing, we were sure that the sounds we heard were fairly close \expndtw0 to us. And yet we may have been quite wrong. For we \expndtw-4 were, in a strange place, a deep place. Sound travels fast \expndtw-5 and far in the deep places, and the silence there is perfect, \expndtw0 letting the least noise be heard for hundreds of miles.\cf0\lang2057\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi278\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i And these were not small noises. The lights were tiny, but the sounds were vast: not loud, but very large. Often \expndtw-3 they were below the range of hearing, long slow vibra\-\expndtw0 tions rather than sounds, The first we heard seemed to us to rise up through the currents from beneath us im\-\expndtw-1 mense groans, sighs felt along the bone, a rumbling, a deep uneasy whispering.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\i Later, certain sounds came down to us from above, or borne along the endless levels of the darkness, and \expndtw-2 these were stranger yet, for they were music. A huge, \expndtw-1 calling, yearning music from far away in the darkness, \expndtw2 calling not to us. \i0 Where are you? I am here.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\i Not to us.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\i They were the voices of the great souls, the great lives, \expndtw0 the lonely ones, the voyagers. Calling. Not often an\-swered. \i0 Where are you? Where have you gone?\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li29\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\i But the bones, the keels and girders of white bones \expndtw2 on icy isles of the South, the shores of bones did not \expndtw-7 reply.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\i Nor could we reply. But we listened, and the tears \expndtw-4 rose in our eyes, salt, not so salt as the oceans, the world-\expndtw-1 girdling deep bereaved currents, the abandoned road\-\expndtw0 ways of the great lives; not so salt, but warmer.\cf0\lang2057\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-1608\li1872\ri1459\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033 I\i  \i0 am here. Where have you gone? \cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li730\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\i No answer.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li504\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\i Only the whispering thunder from below. \expndtw5 But we knew now, though we could not answer, we \expndtw-4 knew because we heard, because we felt, because we wept, \expndtw-2 we knew that we were; and we remembered other voices.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri10\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Max came the next night. I sat on the toilet lid to practice, \expndtw-2 with the bathroom door shut. The FBI men on the other end \expndtw-4 of the bug got a solid half hour of scales and doublestops, and \expndtw-2 then a quite good performance of the Hindemith unaccom\-panied viola sonata. The bathroom being very small and all \expndtw0 hard surfaces, the noise I made was really tremendous. Not \expndtw-3 a good sound, far too much echo, but the sheer volume was \expndtw-1 contagious, and I played louder as I went on. The man up \expndtw-3 above knocked on his floor once; but if I have to listen to the \expndtw-4 weekly All-American Olympic Games at full blast every Sun\-\expndtw0 day morning from his TV set, then he has to accept Paul Hindemith coming up out of his toilet now and then.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 When I got tired I put a wad of cotton over the bug, and \expndtw-4 came out of the bathroom half-deaf. Simon and Max were on \expndtw-1 fire. Burning, unconsumed. Simon was scribbling formulae \expndtw-2 in traction, and Max was pumping his elbows up and down the way he does, like a boxer, and saying "The e - lec - tron emis - sion..." through his npse, with his eyes narrowed, and \expndtw-1 his mind evidently going light-years per second faster than his tongue, because he kept beginning over and saying "The \expndtw0 e - lec - tron emis - sion..." and pumping his elbows.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 Intellectuals at work are very strange to look at. As \expndtw-1 strange as artists. I never could understand how an audience can sit there and \i look \i0 at a fiddler rolling his eyes and biting \expndtw0 his tongue, or a horn player collecting spit, or a pianist like a black cat strapped to an electrified bench, as if what they \i saw \i0 had anything to do with the music.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 I damped the fires with a quart of black-market beer-the \expndtw0 legal kind is better, but I never have enough ration stamps \expndtw-1 for beer; I'm not thirsty enough to go without eating-and \expndtw-2 gradually Max and Simon cooled down. Max would have \expndtw-1 stayed talking all night, but I drove him out because Simon \expndtw-2 was looking tired.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 I put a new battery in the radio and left it playing in the bathroom, and blew out the candle and lay and talked with \expndtw-1 Simon; he was too excited to sleep. He said that Max had \expndtw-2 solved the problems that were bothering them before Simon \expndtw1 was sent to Camp, and had had fitted Simon's equations to\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2323\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw7\fs21 (as Simon put it) the bare facts, which means they have\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 achieved "direct energy conversion." Ten or twelve people\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 have worked on it at different times since Simon published\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi86\li48\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw14\fs21 the\expndtw0  \expndtw-3 theoretical part of it when he was twenty-two. The phy\-\expndtw-2 sicist Ann Jones had pointed out right away that the simplest practical application of the theory would be to build \i a \i0 "sun \expndtw0 tap," a device for collecting and storing solar energy, only \expndtw1 much cheaper and better than the U.S.G. Sola-Heetas that \expndtw-1 some rich people have on their houses. And it would have \expndtw-2 been simple only they kept hitting the same snag. Now Max \expndtw1 has got around the snag.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li34\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 I said that Simon published the theory, but that is inac\-\expndtw-1 curate. Of course he's never been able to publish any of his \expndtw-2 papers, in print; he's not a federal employee and doesn't have a government clearance. But it did get circulated in what the \expndtw1 scientists and poets call Sammy's-dot, that is, just hand\-\expndtw-1 written or hectographed. It's an old joke that the FBI arrests \expndtw-3 everybody with purple fingers, because they have either been \expndtw-1 hectographing Sammy's-dots, or they have impetigo.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Anyhow, Simon was on top of the mountain that night. \expndtw2 His true joy is in the pure math; but he had been working \expndtw1 with Clara and Max and the others in this effort to mater\-\expndtw-2 ialize the theory for ten years, and a taste of material victory \expndtw-1 is a good thing, once in a lifetime.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\li5\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 I asked him to explain what the sun tap would mean to \expndtw-1 the masses, with me as a representative mass. He explained \expndtw1 that it means we can tap solar energy for power, using a \expndtw-1 device that's easier to build than ajar battery. The efficiency and storage capacity are such that about ten minutes of sun\-\expndtw0 light will power an apartment complex like ours, heat and \expndtw1 lights and elevators and all, for twenty-four hours; and no pollution, particulate, thermal, or radioactive. "There isn't \expndtw-4 any danger of using up the sun?" I asked. He took it soberly- \expndtw-1 it was a stupid question, but after all not so long ago people \expndtw0 thought there wasn't any danger of using up the earth-and \expndtw-4 said no, because we wouldn't be pulling out energy, as we did \expndtw-2 when we mined and lumbered and split atoms, but just using \expndtw0 the energy that comes to us anyhow: as the plants, the trees \expndtw-3 and grass and rosebushes, always have done. "You could call \expndtw-4 it Flower Power," he said. He was high, high up on the moun\-\expndtw2 tain, ski-jumping in the sunlight.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 "The State owns us," he said, "because the corporative \expndtw6 State has a monopoly on power sources, and there's not \expndtw0 enough power to go around. But now, anybody could build\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 a generator on their roof that would furnish enough power \expndtw4 to light a city."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 I looked out the window at the dark city.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li19\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "We could completely decentralize industry and agricul\-ture. Technology could serve life instead of serving capital. \expndtw1 We could each run our own life. Power is power!... The State \expndtw2 is a machine. We could unplug the machine, now. Power \expndtw3 corrupts; absolute power corrupts absolutely. But that's true only when there's a price on power. When groups can keep \expndtw1 the power to themselves; when they can use physical power-\expndtw2 to in order to exert spiritual power-over; when might makes right. But if power is free? If everybody is equally mighty? \expndtw4 Then everybody's got to find \i a \i0 better way of showing that \expndtw7 he's right\expndtw18 ..."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "That's what Mr. Nobel thought when he invented dy\-\expndtw4 namite," I said. "Peace on earth."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 He slid down the sunlit slope a couple of thousand feet \expndtw2 and stopped beside me in a spray of snow, smiling. "Skull at \expndtw4 the banquet," he said, "finger writing on the wall. Be still! \expndtw3 Look, don't you see the sun shining on the Pentagon, all the \expndtw5 roofs are off, the sun shines at last into the corridors of \expndtw3 power...And they shrivel up, they wither away. The green grass grows through the carpets of the Oval Room, the \i Hot \expndtw4\i0 Line is disconnected for nonpayment of the bill. The first \expndtw3 thing we'll do \i is \i0 build an electrified fence outside the elec\-\expndtw1 trified fence around the White House. The inner one prevents \expndtw3 unauthorized persons from getting in. The outer one will \expndtw6 prevent authorized persons from getting out..."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Of course he was bitter. Not many people come out of \expndtw2 prison sweet.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 But it was cruel, to be shown this great hope, and to know-\expndtw3 that there was no hope for it. He did know that. He knew it \expndtw6 right along. He knew that there was no mountain, that he \expndtw4 was skiing on the wind.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li485\ri38\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\i The tiny lights of the lantern-creatures died out one \expndtw-1 by one, sank away. The distant lonely voices were silent. \expndtw-2 The cold, slow currents flowed, vacant, only shaken from \expndtw3 time to time by a shifting in the abyss.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li470\ri38\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\i It was dark again, and no voice spoke. All dark, \expndtw2 dumb, cold.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li725\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\i Then the sun rose.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li480\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i It was not like the dawns we had begun to remember: \expndtw0 the change, manifold and subtle, in the smell and touch \cf0\lang2057\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li523\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i of the air; the hush that, instead of sleeping, wakes, holds \expndtw0 still, and waits; the appearance of objects, looking gray, \expndtw2 vague, and new, as if just created-distant mountains \expndtw-2 against the eastern sky, one's own hands, the hoary grass \expndtw0 full of dew and shadow, the fold in the gdge of a curtain \expndtw1 hanging by the window\i0 -\i and then, before one is quite \expndtw2 sure that one is indeed seeing again, that the light has \expndtw1 returned, that day is breaking, the first, abrupt, sweet \expndtw3 stammer of a waking bird. And after that the chorus, voice by voice: This is my nest , this is my tree, this is my egg, this is my day, this ig my Life, here I am, here \expndtw4 I am, hurray for me! I'm here!-No, it wasn't like that \expndtw3 at all, this dawn. It was completely silent, and it was \expndtw-4 blue.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li518\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\i In the dawns that we had begun to remember, one \expndtw1 did not become aware of the light itself, but of the sep\-\expndtw0 arate objects touched by the light, the things, the world. They were there, visible again, as if visibility were their \expndtw3 own property, not a gift from the rising sun,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li504\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\i In this,dawn, there was nothing but the light itself. \expndtw0 Indeed there was not even light, we would have said, but \expndtw-1 only color: blue.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi269\li494\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5\i There was no compass bearing to it. It was not \expndtw2 brighter in the east. There was no east or west. There \expndtw3 was only up and down, below and above. Below was \expndtw1 dark. The blue light came from above. Brightness fell. \expndtw3 Beneath, where the shaking thunder had stilled, the \expndtw2 brightness died away through violet into blindness.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li754\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\i We, arising, watched light fall.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li490\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\i In a way it was more like an ethereal snowfall than \expndtw1 like a sunrise. The light seemed to be in discrete parti\-\expndtw0 cles, infinitesimal flecks, slowly descending, faint, faint\-\expndtw2 er than flecks of fine snow on a dark night, and tinier; but blue. A soft, penetrating blue tending to the violet, \expndtw1 the color of the shadows in an iceberg, the color of a \expndtw0 streak of sky between gray clouds on a winter afternoon before snow: faint in intensity but vivid in hue: the color \expndtw-3 of the remote, the color of the cold, the color farthest from \expndtw2 the sun.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri67\sb202\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 On Saturday night they held a scientific congress in our \expndtw-1 room. Clara and \i Max \i0 came, of course, and the engineer Phil Drum and three others who had worked on the sun tap. Phil \expndtw-3 Drum was very pleased with himself because he had actually\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 built one of the things, a solar cell, and brought it along. I \expndtw-1 don't think it had occurred to either Max or Simon to build \expndtw-3 one. Once they knew it could be done they were satisfied and \expndtw0 wanted to get on with something else. But Phil unwrapped \expndtw-3 his baby with a lot of flourish, and people made remarks like, "Mr. Watson, will you come here a minute," and "Hey, Wil\-\expndtw-1 bur, you're off the ground!" and "I say, nasty mould you've \expndtw-2 got there, Alec, why don't you throw it out?" and "Ugh, ugh, burns, burns, wow, ow," the latter from Max, who does look \expndtw0 a little pre-Mousterian. Phil explained that he had exposed the cell for one minute at four in the afternoon up in Wash\-ington Park during a light rain. The lights were back on on the West Side since Thursday, so we could test it without \expndtw-4 being conspicuous.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 We turned off the lights, after Phil had wired the table-\expndtw-3 lamp cord to the cell. He turned on the lamp switch. The bulb \expndtw2 came on, about twice as bright as before, at its full forty \expndtw-2 watts-city power of course was never full strength. We all looked at it. It was a dime-store table lamp with a metallized \expndtw0 gold base and a white plasticloth shade.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Brighter than a thousand suns," Simon murmured from \expndtw-2 the bed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Could it be," said Clara Edmonds, "that we physicists \expndtw-1 have known sin-and have come out the other side?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "It really wouldn't be any good at all for making bombs \expndtw-1 with," Max said dreamily.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "Bombs," Phil Drum said with scorn. "Bombs are obsolete. \expndtw0 Don't you realize that we could move a mountain with this \expndtw-3 kind of power? I mean pick up Mount Hood, move it, and set \expndtw1 it down. We could thaw Antarctica, we could freeze the \expndtw0 Congo. We could sink a continent. Give me a fulcrum and \expndtw-3 I'll move the world. Well, Archimedes, you've got your ful\-\expndtw0 crum. The sun."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Christ," Simon said, "the radio, Belle!"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The bathroom door was shut and I had put cotton over the \expndtw-1 bug, but he was right; if they were going to go ahead at this \expndtw2 rate there had better be some added static. And though I \expndtw1 liked watching their faces in the clear light of the lamp- \expndtw-1 they all had good, interesting faces, well worn, like the han\-\expndtw-2 dles of wooden tools or the rocks in a running stream-I did \expndtw3 not much want to listen to them talk tonight. Not because \expndtw-2 I wasn't a scientist, that made no difference. And not because \expndtw-3 I disagreed or disapproved or disbelieved anything they said. \expndtw1 Only because it grieved me terribly, their talking. Because\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li67\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 they couldn't rejoice aloud over a job done and a discovery m\expndtw3 ade, but had to hide there and whisper about it. Because they couldn't go out into the sun.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li62\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw8 I went into the bathroom with my viola and sat on the toil\expndtw0 et lid and did a long set of sautille exercises. Then I tried to\expndtw2  work at the Forrest trio, but it was too assertive. I played th\expndtw1 e solo part from \i Harold in Italy, \i0 which is beautiful, but it w\expndtw4 asn't quite the right mood either. They were still going strong in the other room. I began to improvise.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\li29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 After a few minutes in E-minor the light over the shaving \expndtw0 mirror began to flicker and dim; then it died. Another outage, \expndtw2 The table lamp in the other room did not go out, being con\-\expndtw1 nected with the sun, not with the twenty-three atomic fission \expndtw4 plants that power the Greater Portland Area. Within two \expndtw6 seconds somebody had switched it off, too, so that we \expndtw4 shouldn't be the only window in the West Hills left alight; \expndtw5 and I could hear them rooting for candles and rattling \expndtw3 matches. I went on improvising in the dark. Without light, when you couldn't see all the hard shiny surfaces of things, t\expndtw2 he sound seemed softer and less muddled. I went on, and it began to shape up. All the laws of harmonics sang together w\expndtw3 hen the bow came down. The strings of the viola were the c\expndtw0 ords of my own voice, tightened by sorrow, tuned to the pitch o\expndtw3 f joy. The melody created itself out of air and energy, it \expndtw1 raised up the valleys, and the mountains and hills were made l\expndtw4 ow, and the crooked straight, and the rough places plain. \expndtw5 And the music went out to the dark sea and sang in the \expndtw3 darkness, over the abyss.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li24\ri10\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 When I came out they were \i all \i0 sitting there and none of them was talking. Max had been crying. I could see little c\expndtw2 andle flames in the tears around his eyes. Simon lay flat on th\expndtw6 e bed in the shadows, his eyes closed, Phil Drum sat h\expndtw4 unched over, holding the solar cell in his hands.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi226\li24\ri48\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 I loosened the pegs, put the bow and the viola in the case, \expndtw6 and cleared my throat. It was embarrassing. I finally said, \expndtw2 I'm sorry."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 One of the women spoke: Rose Abramski, a private student. o\expndtw1 f Simon's, a big shy woman who could hardly speak at all \expndtw4 unless it was in mathematical symbols. "I saw it," she said. \expndtw5 I saw it. I saw the white towers, and the water streaming \expndtw2 down their sides, and running back down to the sea. And the \expndtw6 sunlight shining in the streets, after ten thousand years of \expndtw3 darkness."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2323\sl-202\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li53\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "I heard them," Simon said, very low, from the shadow. "I heard their voices."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li53\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Oh, Christ! Stop it!" Max cried out, and got up and went blundering out into the unlit hall, without his coat. We heard \expndtw5 him running down the stairs.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li53\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Phil," said Simon, lying there, "could we raise up the white towers, with our lever and our fulcrum?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi288\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 After a long silence Phil Drum answered, "We have the \expndtw0\bullet power to do it."\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "What else do we need?" Simon said. "What else do we \expndtw1 need, besides power?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Nobody answered him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li514\ri19\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\i The blue changed. It became brighter, lighter, and \expndtw2 at the same time thicker: impure. The ethereal lumi\-\expndtw1 nosity of blue-violet turned to turquoise, intense and \expndtw-1 opaque. Still we could not have said that everything was \expndtw1 now turquoise-colored, for there were still no things. There was nothing, except the color of turquoise.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li509\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\i The change continued. The opacity became veined \expndtw1 and thinned. The dense, solid color began to appear \expndtw2 translucent, transparent. Then it seemed as if we were \expndtw3 in the heart of a sacred jade, or the brilliant crystal of \expndtw2 a sapphire or an emerald.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li490\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\i As at the inner structure of a crystal, there was no \expndtw-2 motion. But there was something else, now, to see. It was \expndtw4 as if we saw the motionless, elegant inward structure \expndtw0 of the molecules of a precious stone. Planes and angles \expndtw1 appeared about us, shadowless and clear in that even, \expndtw2 glowing, blue-green light.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li509\ri53\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\i These were the walls and towers of the city, the streets, \expndtw2 the windows, the gates.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li499\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\i We knew them, but we did not recognize them. We \expndtw0 did not dare to recognize them. It had been so long. And it was so strange. We had used to dream, when we lived \expndtw4 in this city. We had lain down, nights, in the rooms \expndtw3 behind the windows, and slept, and dreamed. We had \expndtw-1 all dreamed of the ocean, of the deep sea. Were we not \expndtw2 dreaming now?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li490\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\i Sometimes the thunder and tremor deep below us \expndtw-1 rolled again, but it was faint now, far away; as far away \expndtw3 as our memory of the thunder and the tremor and the \expndtw1 fire and the towers falling, long ago. Neither the sound \expndtw2 nor the memory frightened us. We knew them. \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\i The sapphire light brightened overhead to green, al\-most green-gold. We looked up. The tops of the highest \expndtw-3 towers were hard to see, glowing in the radiance of light. \expndtw0 The streets and doorways were darker, more dearly de\-\expndtw1 fined.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i In one of those long, jewel-dark streets something was moving\i0 -\i something not composed of planes and angles, \expndtw-3 but of curves and arcs. We all turned to look at it, slowly, \expndtw1 wondering as we did so at the slow ease of our own \expndtw0 motion, our freedom. Sinuous, with a beautiful flowing, gathering, rolling movement, now rapid and now ten\-tative, the thing drifted across the street from a blank garden wall to the recess of a door. There, in the dark \expndtw-2 blue shadow, it was hard to see for a while. We watched. \expndtw2 A pale blue curve appeared at the top of the doorway. \expndtw0 A second followed, and a third. The moving thing clung \expndtw-1 or hovered there, above the door, like a swaying knot of \expndtw-3 silvery cords or a boneless hand, one arched finger point\-\expndtw-1 ing carelessly to something above the lintel of the door, something like itself, but motionless\i0 -a \i carving. A carv\-\expndtw3 ing in jade light. A carving in stone.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li29\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\i Delicately and easily the long curving tentacle fol\-lowed the curves of the carved figure, the eight petal-\expndtw1 limbs, the round eyes. Did it recognize its image?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\li10\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\i The living one swung suddenly, gathered its curves \expndtw1 in a loose knot, and darted away down the street, swift \expndtw-1 and sinuous. Behind it a faint cloud of darker blue hung \expndtw0 for a minute and dispersed, revealing again the carved \expndtw2 figure above the door: the sea-flower, the cuttlefish, \expndtw-1 quick, great-eyed, graceful, evasive, the cherished sign, \expndtw0 carved on a thousand walls, worked into the design of \expndtw-1 cornices, pavements, handles, lids of jewel boxes, can\-opies, tapestries, tabletops, gateways.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i Down another street, about the level of the first-floor \expndtw2 windows, came a flickering drift of hundreds of motes \expndtw3 of silver. With a single motion all turned toward the \expndtw-2 cross street, and glittered off into the dark blue shadows.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\i There were shadows, now.\cf0\lang2057\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i We looked up, up from the flight of silverfish, up from \expndtw-2 the streets where the jade-green currents flowed and the \expndtw1 blue shadows fell. We moved and looked up, yearning, \expndtw2 to the high towers of our city. They stood, the fallen \expndtw1 towers. They glowed in the ever-brightening radiance, \expndtw2 not blue or blue-green, up there, but gold. Far above \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li499\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i them lay a vast, circular, trembling brightness: the sun's \expndtw2 light on the surface of the sea.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\li480\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i We are here. When we break through the bright circle \expndtw4 into life, the water will break and stream white down \expndtw1 the white sides, of the towers, and run down the steep streets back into the sea. The water will glitter in dark \expndtw0 hair, on the eyelids of dark eyes, and dry to a thin white \expndtw3 film of salt.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li739\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i We are here.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i Whose voice? Who called to us?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He was with me for twelve days. On January 28th the \expndtw-1 'crats came from the Bureau of Health, Education and Wel\-\expndtw0 fare and said that since he was receiving Unemployment \expndtw-1 Compensation while suffering from an untreated illness, the \expndtw0 government must look after him and restore him to health, \expndtw1 because health is the inalienable right of the citizens of a \expndtw-3 democracy. He refused to sign the consent forms, so the chief \expndtw0 health officer signed them. He refused to get up, so two of \expndtw-2 the policemen pulled him up off the bed. He started to try to \expndtw-1 fight them. The chief health officer pulled his gun and said \expndtw0 that if he continued to struggle he would shoot him for re\-sisting welfare, and arrest me for conspiracy to defraud the \expndtw-2 government. The man who was holding my arms behind my \expndtw-1 back said they could always arrest me for unreported preg\-\expndtw1 nancy with intent to form a nuclear family. At that Simon \expndtw0 stopped trying to get free. It was really all he was trying to \expndtw-1 do, not to fight them, just to get his arms free. He looked at \expndtw0 me, and they took him out.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 He is in the federal hospital in Salem. I have not been \expndtw0 able to find out whether he is in the regular hospital or the mental wards.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 It was on'the radio again yesterday, about the rising land masses in the South Atlantic and the Western Pacific. At Max's the other night I saw a TV special explaining about geophysical stresses and subsidence and faults. The U.S. \expndtw-1 Geodetic Service is doing a lot of advertising around town, \expndtw-2 the most common one is a big billboard that says IT'S NOT OUR FAULT! with a picture of a beaver pointing to a sche\-\expndtw-3 matic map that shows how even if Oregon has a major earth\-\expndtw1 quake and subsidence as California did last month, it will \expndtw-3 not affect Portland, or only the western suburbs perhaps. The \expndtw-1 news also said that they plan to halt the tidal waves in Flor\-\expndtw-3 ida by dropping nuclear bombs where Miami was. Then they\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 will reattach Florida to the mainland with landfill. They are already advertising real estate for housing developments on the landfill. The president is staying at the Mile High White \expndtw-2 House in Aspen, Colorado. I don't think it will do him much \expndtw-1 good. Houseboats down on the Willamette are selling for \expndtw0 $500,000. There are no trains or buses running south from \expndtw-1 Portland, because all the highways were badly damaged by \expndtw2 the tremors and landslides last week, so I will have to see \expndtw-4 if I can get to Salem on foot. I still have the rucksack I bought \expndtw-2 for the Mount Hood Wilderness Week. I got some dry lima \expndtw1 beans and raisins with my Federal Pair Share Super Value \expndtw-1 Green Stamp minimal ration book for February-it took the \expndtw-2 whole book-and Phil Drum made me a tiny camp stove powered with the solar cell. I didn't want to take the Primus, \expndtw0 it's too bulky, and I did want to be able to carry the viola. \expndtw-2 Max gave me a half pint of brandy. When the brandy is gone \expndtw-1 I expect I will stuff this notebook into the bottle and put the \expndtw0 cap on tight and leave it on a hillside somewhere between \expndtw-1 here and Salem. I like to think of it being lifted up little fay \expndtw2 little by the water, and rocking, and going out to the dark \expndtw-3 sea.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li528\sb173\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i Where are you?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li528\cf1\lang1033\i We are here. Where have you gone?\cf0\lang2057\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li1134\ri1474\sb1493\sl-499\slmult0\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw16\b\fs29 History Lesson \expndtw-21\b0 ARTHUR  C.  CLARKE\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri34\sb432\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 No one could remember when the tribe had begun \i its \i0 long \expndtw2 journey. The land of great rolling plains that had been its \expndtw0 first home was now no more than a half-forgotten dream.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 For many years Shann and his people had been fleeing \expndtw0 through a country of low hills and sparkling lakes, and now\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2323\sl-206\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 the mountains lay ahead. This summer they must cross them \expndtw1 to the southern lands. There was little time to lose. The white \expndtw3 terror that had come down from the Poles, grinding conti\-\expndtw6 nents to dust and freezing the very air before it, was less \expndtw5 than a day's march behind.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Shann wondered if the glaciers could climb the mountains \expndtw3 ahead, and within his heart he dared to kindle a little flame \expndtw4 of hope. This might prove a barrier against which even the \expndtw5 remorseless ice would batter in vain. In the southern lands \expndtw3 of which the legends spoke, his people might find refuge at last.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 It took weeks to discover a pass through which the tribe and the animals could travel. When midsummer came, they \expndtw6 had camped in a lonely valley where the air was thin and \expndtw1 the stars shone with a brilliance no one had ever seen before.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 The summer was waning when Shann took his two sons \expndtw5 and went ahead to explore the way. For three days they \expndtw3 climbed, and for three nights slept as best they could on the \expndtw2 freezing rocks. And on the fourth morning there was nothing \expndtw1 ahead but a gentle rise to a cairn of gray stones built by other \expndtw4 travelers, centuries ago.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Shann felt himself trembling, and not with cold, as they \expndtw5 walked toward the little pyramid of stones. His sons had fallen behind. No one spoke, for too much was at stake. In \expndtw3\i a \i0 little while they would know if all their hopes had been \expndtw2 betrayed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 To east and west, the wall of mountains curved away as \expndtw2 if embracing the land beneath. Below lay endless miles of \expndtw5 undulating plain, with a great river swinging across it in \expndtw1 tremendous loops. It was a fertile land; one in which the tribe \expndtw0 could raise crops knowing that there would be no need to flee \expndtw4 before the harvest came.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Then Shann lifted his eyes to the south, and saw the doom of all his hopes. For there at the edge of the world glimmered \expndtw2 that deadly light he had seen so often to the north-the glint \expndtw1 of ice below the horizon.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li5\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 There was no way forward. Through all the years of flight, \expndtw1 the glaciers from the south had been advancing to meet them. \expndtw7 Soon they would be crushed beneath the moving walls of \expndtw13 ice....\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri38\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Southern glaciers did not reach the mountains until a \expndtw4 generation later. In that last summer the sons of Shann car\-\expndtw2 ried the sacred treasures of the tribe to the lonely cairn over-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 looking the plain. The ice that had once gleamed below the horizon was now almost at their feet. By spring it would be \expndtw6 splintering against the mountain walls.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx4915\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 No one understood the treasures now. They were from a\line\expndtw1 past too distant for the understanding of any man alive. Their\line\expndtw5 origins were lost in the mists that surrounded the Golden\line\expndtw7 Age, and how they had come at last into the possession\expndtw0\tab\expndtw2 of\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 this wandering tribe was a story that now would never be \expndtw3 told. For it was the story of a civilization that had passed \expndtw1 beyond recall.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Once, all these pitiful relics had been treasured for some \expndtw2 good reason, and now they had become sacred though their \expndtw3 meaning had long been lost. The print in the old books had \expndtw4 faded centuries ago though much of the lettering was still visible-if there had been any to read it. But many gener\-\expndtw3 ations had passed since anyone had had a use for a set of seven-figure logarithms, an atlas of the world, and the score \expndtw1 of Sibelius' Seventh Symphony, printed, according to the fly\-\expndtw3 leaf, by H. K. Chu and Sons, at the City of Pekin in the year \expndtw0 2371 \i A.D.\cf0\lang2057\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 The old books were placed reverently in the little crypt \expndtw1 that had been made to receive them. There followed a motley \expndtw2 collection of fragments-gold and platinum coins, a broken telephoto lens, a watch, a cold light lamp, a microphone, the \expndtw4 cutter from an electric shaver, some midget radio tubes, the \expndtw5 flotsam that had been left behind when the great tide of \expndtw2 civilization had ebbed forever.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 All these treasures were carefully stowed away in their \expndtw3 resting place. Then came three more relics, the most sacred \expndtw4 of all because the least understood.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The first was a strangely shaped piece of metal, showing \expndtw4 the coloration of intense heat. It was, in its way, the most \expndtw0 pathetic of all these symbols from the past, for it told of man's \expndtw1 greatest achievement and of the future he might have known. \expndtw3 The mahogany stand on which it was mounted bore a silver \expndtw5 plate with the inscription:\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri53\sb192\sl-202\slmult0\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 Auxiliary Igniter from Starboard Jet\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri53\sl-202\slmult0\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Spaceship "Morning Star"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri58\sl-202\slmult0\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Earth-Moon, A.D. 1985\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri48\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Next followed another miracle of the ancient science-a \expndtw6 sphere of transparent plastic with strangely shaped pieces \expndtw5 of metal embedded in it. At its centre was a tiny capsule of\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 synthetic radio-element, surrounded by the converting screens \expndtw4 that shifted its radiation far down the spectrum. As long as \expndtw6 the material remained active, the sphere would be a tiny \expndtw3 radio transmitter, broadcasting power in all directions. Only \expndtw2 a few of these spheres had ever been made. They had been \expndtw4 designed as perpetual beacons to mark the orbits of the as\-teroids. But man had never reached the asteroids and the \expndtw3 beacons had never been used.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Last of all was a flat, circular tin, wide in comparison with \expndtw5 its depth. It was heavily sealed, and rattled when shaken. \expndtw2 The tribal lore predicted that disaster would follow if it were \expndtw3 ever opened, and no one knew that it held one of the great \expndtw4 works of art of nearly a thousand years before.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 The work was finished. The two men rolled the stones \expndtw2 back into place and slowly began to descend the mountain\-\expndtw4 side. Even to the last, man had given some thought to the \expndtw5 future and had tried to preserve something for posterity.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 That winter the great waves of ice began their first assault \expndtw3 on the mountains, attacking from north and south. The foot\-\expndtw4 hills were overwhelmed in the first onslaught, and the gla\-ciers ground them into dust. But the mountains stood firm, \expndtw5 and when the summer came the ice retreated for a while.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 So, winter after winter, the battle continued, and the roar \expndtw2 of the avalanches, the grinding of rock and the explosions of \expndtw5 splintering ice filled the air with tumult. No war of man's \expndtw4 had been fiercer than this, and even man's battles had not quite engulfed the globe as this had done.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 At last the tidal waves of ice began to subside and to creep slowly down the flanks of the mountains they had never quite \expndtw5 subdued. The valleys and passes were still firmly in their \expndtw3 grip. It was stalemate. The glaciers had met their match, but \expndtw4 their defeat was too late to be of any use to man.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 So the centuries passed, and presently there happened \expndtw6 something that must occur once at least in the history of \expndtw0 every world in the universe, no matter how remote and lonely \expndtw4 it may be.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri14\sb187\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 The ship from Venus came five thousand years too late, \expndtw3 but its crew knew nothing of this. While still many millions \expndtw5 of miles away, the telescopes had seen the great shroud of \expndtw4 ice that made Earth the most brilliant object in the sky next to the sun itself.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Here and there the dazzling sheet was marred by black \expndtw6 specks that revealed the presence of almost buried moun-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li77\ri86\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 tains. That was all. The rolling oceans, the plains And forests, t\expndtw1 he deserts and lakes-all that had been the world of man w\expndtw-1 as sealed beneath the ice, perhaps forever.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li62\ri82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The ship closed in to Earth and established an orbit less \expndtw2 than a thousand miles away. For five days it circled the planet, while cameras recorded all that was left to see and \expndtw-2 a hundred instruments gathered information that would give \expndtw0 the Venusian scientists many years of work.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li53\ri86\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 An actual landing was not intended. There seemed little purpose in it. But on the sixth day the picture changed. A panoramic monitor, driven to the limit of its amplification, \expndtw-1 detected the dying radiation of the five-thousand-year-old \expndtw1 beacon. Through all the centuries, it had been sending out i\expndtw0 ts signals with ever-failing strength as its radioactive heart \expndtw-2 steadily weakened.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri106\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tlul\tx2050\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 The monitor locked on the beacon frequency. In the control \expndtw0 room, a bell clamored for attention, A little later, the Ven\-\expndtw-2 usian ship broke free from its orbit and slanted down toward \expndtw-3 Earth, toward a range of mountains that still towered proudly \expndtw2 above the ice, and to a cairn of gray stones that the years \expndtw-3 had scarcely touched....\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri101\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The great disc of the sun blazed fiercely in a sky no longer \expndtw-1 veiled with mist, for the clouds that had once hidden Venus \expndtw-3 had now completely gone. Whatever force had caused the \expndtw0 change in the sun's radiation had doomed one civilization, \expndtw-2 but had given birth to another. Less than five thousand years \expndtw-1 before, the half-savage people of Venus had seen Sun and \expndtw-2 stars for the first time. Just as the science of Earth had begun with astronomy, so had that of Venus, and on the warm, rich world that man had never seen progress had been incredibly \expndtw-3 rapid.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li10\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Perhaps the Venusians had been lucky. They never knew the Dark Age that held man enchained for a thousand years. They missed the long detour into chemistry and mechanics \expndtw0 but came at once to the more fundamental laws of radiation \expndtw-1 physics. In the time that man had taken to progress from the , \expndtw0 Pyramids to the rocket-propelled spaceship, the Venusians had passed from the discovery of agriculture to anti-gravity \expndtw2 itself-the ultimate secret that man had never learned.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri134\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The warm ocean that still bore most of the young planet's \expndtw-1 life rolled its breakers languidly against the sandy shore. So \expndtw0 new was this continent that the very sands were coarse and \expndtw2 gritty. There had not yet been time enough for the sea to \expndtw-1 wear them smooth.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 The scientists lay half in the water, their beautiful rep\-\expndtw6 tilian bodies gleaming in the sunlight. The greatest minds \expndtw4 of Venus had gathered on this shore from all the islands of \expndtw5 the planet. What they were going to hear they did not yet \expndtw1 know, except that it concerned the Third World and the mys\-\expndtw2 terious race that had peopled it before the coming of the ice.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 The Historian was standing on the land, for the instru\-\expndtw1 ments he wished to use had no love of water. By his side was \expndtw3 a large machine which attracted many curious glances from \expndtw0 his colleagues. It was clearly concerned with optics, for a lens \expndtw5 system projected from it toward a screen of white material \expndtw3 a dozen yards away.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 The Historian began to speak. Briefly he recapitulated \expndtw3 what little had been discovered concerning the Third Planet \expndtw2 and its people.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 He mentioned the centuries of fruitless research that had \expndtw2 failed to interpret a single word of the writings of Earth. The \expndtw1 planet had been inhabited by a race of great technical ability. \expndtw4 That, at least, was proved by the few pieces of machinery \expndtw6 that had been found in the cairn upon the mountain.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "We do not know why so advanced a civilization came to \expndtw3 an end," he observed. "Almost certainly, it had sufficient \expndtw0 knowledge to survive an Ice Age. There must have been some \expndtw2 factor of which we know nothing. Possibly disease or racial \expndtw3 degeneration may have been responsible. It has even been \expndtw1 suggested that the tribal conflicts endemic to our own species \expndtw3 in prehistoric times may have continued on the Third Planet \expndtw0 after the coming of technology.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Some philosophers maintain that knowledge of machin\-ery does not necessarily imply a high degree of civilization, and it is theoretically possible to have wars in a society pos\-\expndtw3 sessing mechanical power, flight, and even radio. Such a \expndtw4 conception is alien to our thoughts, but we must admit its \expndtw1 possibility. It would certainly account for the downfall of the lost race.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "It has always been assumed that we should never know anything of the physical form of the creatures who lived on \expndtw4 Planet Three. For centuries our artists have been depicting scenes from the history of the dead world, peopling it with \expndtw3 all manner of fantastic beings. Most of these creations have resembled us more or less closely, though it has often been \expndtw4 pointed out that because \i we \i0 are reptiles it does not follow \expndtw6 that all intelligent life must necessarily be reptilian,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2093\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw8 "We now know the answer to one of the most baffling \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\tx288\cf1\lang1033 problems of history. At last, after a hundred years of research,\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi134\li67\sl-197\slmult0\tx355\cf1\lang1033 we\tab\expndtw4 have discovered the exact form and nature of the ruling\line life on the Third Planet,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li53\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 There was a murmur of astonishment from the assembled \expndtw3 scientists. Some were so taken aback that they disappeared for a while into the comfort of the ocean, as all Venusians were apt to do in moments of stress. The Historian waited until his colleagues reemerged into the element they so dis-liked. He himself was quite comfortable, thanks to the tiny \expndtw5 sprays that were continually playing over his body. With t\expndtw1 heir help he could live on land for many hours before having \expndtw4 to return to the ocean.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi216\li67\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 The excitement slowly subsided and the lecturer contin\-\expndtw-8 ued.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "One of the most puzzling of the objects found on Planet \expndtw4 Three was a flat metal container holding a great length of \expndtw6 transparent plastic material, perforated at the edges and \expndtw5 would tightly into a spool. This transparent tape at first s\expndtw4 eemed quite featureless, but an examination with the new \expndtw2 subelectronic microscope has shown that this is not the case. \expndtw4 Along the surface of the material, invisible to our eyes but \expndtw2 perfectly clear under the correct radiation, are literally thou\-sands of tiny picture It is believed that they were imprinted on the material by some chemical means, and have faded \expndtw4 with the passage of time.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "These pictures apparently form a record of life as it was \expndtw3 on the Third Planet at the height of its civilization. They are \expndtw4 not independent. Consecutive pictures are almot identical, \expndtw1 differing only in the detail of movement. The purpose of such \expndtw2 a record is obvious. It is only necessary to project the scenes in rapid succession to give an illusion of continuous move\-\expndtw4 ment. We have made a machine to do this, and I\i  \i0 have here \expndtw3 an exact reproduction of the picture sequence.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "The scenes you are now going to witness take us back \expndtw6 many thousands of years, to the great days of our sister \expndtw2 planet. They show a complex civilization, many of whose \expndtw3 activities we can only dimly understand. Life seems to have been very violent and energetic, and much that you will see \expndtw2 is quite baffling.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri58\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "It is clear that the Third Planet was inhabited by a num\-\expndtw0 ber of different species, none of them reptilian. That is a blow \expndtw1 to our pride, but the conclusion is inescapable. The dominant \expndtw-1 type of life appears to have been a two-armed biped. It walked \expndtw7 upright and covered its bodv with some flexible material,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\ri96\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 possibly for protection against the cold, since even before the \expndtw2 Ice Age the planet was at a much lower temperature than \expndtw-1 our own world. But I will not try your patience any further. \expndtw-3 You will now see the record of which I have been speaking."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 A brilliant light flashed from the projector. There was a \expndtw0 gentle whirring, and on the screen appeared hundreds of strange beings moving rather jerkily to and fro. The picture \expndtw-1 expanded to embrace one of the creatures, and the scientists, \expndtw1 could see that the Historian's description had been correct.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri106\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The creature possessed two eyes, set rather close together, \expndtw0 but the other facial adornments were a little obscure. There \expndtw-1 was a large orifice in the lower portion of the head that was \expndtw0 continually opening and closing. Possibly it had something \expndtw2 to do with the creature's breathing.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri101\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The scientists watched spellbound as the strange being became involved in a series of fantastic adventures. There \expndtw-1 was an incredibly violent conflict with another, slightly dif\-\expndtw2 ferent creature. It seemed certain that they must both be \expndtw-4 killed, but when it was all over neither seemed any the worse.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri106\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Then came a furious drive over miles of country in a four-wheeled mechanical device which was capable of extraordi\-\expndtw-4 nary feats of locomotion. The ride ended in a city packed with \expndtw3 other vehicles moving in all directions at breath-taking \expndtw-4 speeds. No one was surprised to see two of the machines meet \expndtw1 headon with devastating results.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri110\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 After that, events became even more complicated. It was now quite obvious that it would take many years of research \expndtw2 to analyze and understand all that was happening. It was \expndtw-1 also clear that the record was a work of art, somewhat styl\-\expndtw0 ized, rather than an exact reproduction of life as it actually \expndtw1 had been on the Third Planet.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Most of the scientists felt themselves completely dazed \expndtw0 when the sequence of pictures came to an end. There was a \expndtw1 final flurry of motion, in which the creature that had been \expndtw-1 the center of interest became involved in some tremendous \expndtw0 but incomprehensible catastrophe. The picture contracted to \expndtw1 a circle, centered on the creature's head.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri115\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The last scene of all was an expanded view of its face, \expndtw0 obviously expressing some powerful emotion. But whether \expndtw-2 it was rage, grief, defiance, resignation or some other feeling \expndtw-1 could not be guessed. The picture vanished. For a moment \expndtw0 some lettering appeared on the screen, then it was all over.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri110\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 For several minutes there was complete, silence, save the lapping of the waves upon the sand. The scientists were too\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 stunned to speak. The fleeting glimpse of Earth's civilization had had a shattering effect on their minds. Then little groups \expndtw2 began to start talking together, first in whispers and then \expndtw-1 more and more loudly as the implications of what they had \expndtw1 seen became clearer. Presently the Historian called for at\-tention and addressed the meeting again.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "We are now planning," he said, "a vast program of re\-search to extract all available knowledge from this record. Thousands of copies are being made for distribution to all -\expndtw-4 workers. You will appreciate the problems involved. The psy\-\expndtw0 chologists in particular have an immense task confronting \expndtw-3 them.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx4358\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "But I do not doubt that we shall succeed. In another\line\expndtw0 generation, who can say what we may not have learned of\line\expndtw-4 this wonderful race? Before we leave, let us look again at our\line\expndtw-3 remote cousins, whose wisdom may have surpassed\expndtw0\tab ou\expndtw2 r own\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 but of whom so little has survived."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Once more the final picture flashed on the screen, mo\-\expndtw-1 tionless this time, for the projector had been stopped. With \expndtw2 something like awe, the scientists gazed at the still figure from the past, while in turn the little biped stared back at \expndtw-1 them with its characteristic expression of arrogant bad tem\-\expndtw-5 per.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 For the rest of time it would symbolize the human race. \expndtw-1 The psychologists of Venus would analyze its actions and \expndtw1 watch its every movement until they could reconstruct its \expndtw-4 mind. Thousands of books would be written about it. Intricate \expndtw-3 philosophies would be contrived to account for its behavior.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri86\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 But all this labor, all this research, would be utterly in \expndtw-1 vain. Perhaps the proud and lonely figure on the screen was \expndtw1 smiling sardonically at the scientists who were starting on \expndtw0 their age-long fruitless quest.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri96\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx4579\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Its secret would be safe as long as the universe endured, \expndtw-1 for no one now would ever read the lost language of Earth. \expndtw0 Millions of times in the ages to come those last few words \expndtw-4 would flash across the screen, and none could ever guess their \expndtw10 meaning:\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li1406\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 A Walt Disney Production\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi91\li1301\ri1152\sl-475\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\b\fs28 Seeds of the Dusk \expndtw0\b0 RAYMOND Z. GALLUN\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\sb413\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 It\i  \i0 was a spore, microscopic in size. Its hard shell-resistant \expndtw2 to the utter dryness of interplanetary space-harbored a tiny bit of plant protoplasm. That protoplasm, chilled almost to \expndtw0 absolute zero, possessed no vital pulsation now-only a grim \expndtw4 potentiality, a savage capacity for revival, that was a chal\-lenge to Fate itself.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 For years the spore had been drifting and bobbing errat\-ically between the paths of Earth and Mars, along with bil\-\expndtw0 lions of other spores of the same kind. Now the gravity of the \expndtw3 Sun drew it a few million miles closer to Earth's orbit, now powerful magnetic radiations from solar vortices forced it back toward the world of its origin.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 It seemed entirely a plaything of chance. And, of course, up to a point it was. But back of its erratic, unconscious \expndtw3 wanderings, there was intelligence that had done its best to \expndtw5 take advantage of the law of averages.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li14\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 The desire for rebirth and survival was the dominant urge of this intelligence. For this was during the latter days, when Earth itself was showing definite signs of senility, and Mars \expndtw3 was near as dead \i as \i0 the Moon.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Strange, intricate spore-pods, conceived as a man might \expndtw2 conceive a new invention, but put into concrete form by a process of minutely exact growth control, had burst explo\-\expndtw1 sively toward a black, spacial sky. In dusty clouds the spores \expndtw5 had been hurled upward into the vacuum thinness that had \expndtw2 once been an extensive atmosphere. Most of them had, of course, dropped back to the red, arid soil; but a comparative \expndtw4 few, buffeted by feeble air currents, and measured numeri\-\expndtw0 cally in billions, had found their way from the utterly tenuous upper reaches of Mars' gaseous envelope into the empty ether of the void.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2323\sl-202\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 With elements of a conscious purpose added, the thing that \expndtw1 was taking place was a demonstration of the ancient Ar-\expndtw0 rhenius Spore Theory, which, countless ages ago, had ex\-\expndtw-2 plained the propagation of life from world to world.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The huge, wonderful parent growths were left behind, to \expndtw-1 continue a hopeless fight for survival on a burnt-out world. During succeeding summer seasons they would hurl more \expndtw2 spores into the interplanetary abyss. But soon they them\-\expndtw-3 selves would be only brown, mummied relics-one with the \expndtw-2 other relics of Mars; the gray, carven monoliths; the strange, hemispherical dwellings, dotted with openings arranged like \expndtw-4 the cells of \i a \i0 honeycomb. Habitations of an intelligent animal folk, long perished, who had never had use for halls or rooms, \expndtw1 as such things are known to men on Earth.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri19\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The era of utter death would come to Mars, when nothing \expndtw-4 would move on its surface except the shadows shifting across \expndtw-1 dusty deserts, and the molecules of sand and rock vibrating \expndtw2 with a little warmth from the hot, though shrunken Sun. \expndtw-3 Death-complete death! But the growths which were the last \expndtw-2 civilized beings of Mars had not originated there. Once they \expndtw-1 had been on the satellites of Jupiter, too. And before that- \expndtw-3 well, perhaps even the race memory of their kind had lost the \expndtw-1 record of those dim, distant ages. Always they had waited \expndtw0 their chance, and when the time came-when a world was \expndtw-1 physically suited for their development-they had acted,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 A single spore was enough to supply the desired foothold \expndtw-1 on a planet. Almost inevitably-since chance is, in funda\-\expndtw1 mentals, a mathematical element depending on time and \expndtw-2 numbers and repetition-that single spore reached the upper \expndtw-1 atmosphere of Earth,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li14\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 For months, it bobbed erratically in tenuous, electrified \expndtw-2 gases. It might have been shot into space again. Upward and \expndtw0 downward it wandered; but with gravity to tug at its insig\-\expndtw-2 nificant mass, probability favored its ultimate descent to the \expndtw-1 harsh surface.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 It found a resting place, at last, in a frozen desert gully. \expndtw-3 Around the gully were fantastic, sugar-loaf mounds. Near-by \expndtw0 was one thin, ruined spire of blue porcelain-an empty re\-\expndtw-1 minder of a gentler era, long gone.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The location thus given to it seemed hardly favorable in \expndtw-2 its aspect. For this was the northern hemisphere, locked now \expndtw0 in the grip of a deadly winter. The air, depleted through the \expndtw3 ages, as was the planet's water supply, was arid and thin.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2323\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 The temperature, though not as rigorous and deadening as \expndtw3 that of interplanetary space, ranged far below zero. Mars in \expndtw5 this age was near dead; Earth was a dying world.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 But perhaps this condition, in itself, was almost favorable. \expndtw2 The spore belonged to a kind of life developed to meet the \expndtw1 challenge of a generally much less friendly environment than \expndtw6 that of even this later-day Earth.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 There was snow in that desert gully-maybe a quarter-\expndtw4 inch depth of it. The rays of the Sun-white and dwarfed \expndtw2 after so many eons of converting its substance into energy- did not melt any of that snow even at noon. But this did not \expndtw1 matter. The life principle within the spore detected favorable \expndtw5 conditions for its germination, just as, in spring, the vital \expndtw3 principle of Earthly seeds had done for almost incalculable \expndtw-1 ages.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 By a process parallel to that of simple fermentation, a tiny \expndtw-1 amount of heat was generated within the spore. A few crystals \expndtw4 of snow around it turned to moisture, a minute quantity of \expndtw2 which the alien speck of life absorbed. Roots finer than spi-\expndtw1 derweb grew, groping int& the snow. At night they were fro\-\expndtw4 zen solid, but during the day they resumed their brave ac\-\expndtw2 tivity.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 The spore expanded, but did not burst. For its shell was \expndtw4 a protecting armor which must be made to increase in size \expndtw3 gradually without rupture. Within it, intricate chemical pro\-cesses were taking place. Chlorophyl there was absorbing \expndtw2 sunshine and carbon dioxide and water. Starch and cellulose and free oxygen were being produced.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri24\sb202\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 So far, these processes were quite like those of common \expndtw5 terrestrial flora. But there were differences. For one thing, \expndtw4 the oxygen was not liberated to float in the atmosphere. It \expndtw2 had been ages since such lavish waste had been possible on \expndtw4 Mars, whose thin air had contained but a small quantity of \expndtw3 oxygen in its triatomic form, ozone, even when Earth was \expndtw-2 young.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 The alien thing stored its oxygen, compressing the gas into \expndtw5 the tiny compartments in its hard, porous, outer shell. The \expndtw0 reason was simple. Oxygen, combining with starch in a slow, \expndtw3 fermentive combustion, could produce heat to ward off the \expndtw2 cold that would otherwise stop growth.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 The spore had become a plant now. First, it was no bigger \expndtw4 than a pinhead. Then it increased its size to the dimensions \expndtw5 of a small marble, its fuzzy, green-brown shape firmly an-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li58\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 chored to the soil itself by its long, fibrous roots. Like any \expndtw1 terrestrial growth, it was an intricate chemical laboratory, \expndtw-2 where transformations took place that were not easy to com\-\expndtw-3 prehend completely.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 And now, perhaps, the thing was beginning to feel the first \expndtw1 glimmerings of a consciousness, like a human child rising \expndtw-2 out of the blurred, unremembering fog of birth. Strange, oily \expndtw-3 nodules, scattered throughout its tissues, connected by means \expndtw-1 of a complex network of delicate, white threads, which had \expndtw-4 the functions of a nervous system, were developing and grow\-\expndtw-1 ing-giving to the sporeplant from Mars the equivalent of a \expndtw0 brain. Here was a sentient vegetable in the formative stage.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 A sentient vegetable? Without intelligence it is likely that \expndtw-1 the ancestors of this nameless invader from across the void \expndtw0 would long ago have lost their battle for survival.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 What senses were given to this strange mind, by means \expndtw-2 of which it could be aware of its environment? Undoubtedly \expndtw0 it possessed faculties of sense that could detect things in a \expndtw-1 way that was as far beyond ordinary human conception as \expndtw-2 vision is to those individuals who have been born blind. But in a more simpler manner it must have been able to feel heat \expndtw1 and cold and to hear sounds, the latter perhaps by the sen\-\expndtw-2 sitivity of its fine, cilialike spines. And certainly it could see \expndtw1 in a way comparable to that of a man.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 For, scattered over the round body of the plant, and imbed\-\expndtw0 ded deep in horny hollows in its shell, were little organs, \expndtw-1 lensed with a clear vegetable substance. These organs were \expndtw-2 eyes, developed, perhaps, from far more primitive light-sen\-\expndtw0 sitive cells, such as many forms of terrestrial flora possess.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri43\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 But during those early months, the spore plant saw little \expndtw0 that could be interpreted as a threat, swiftly to be fulfilled. Winter ruled, and the native life of this desolate region was \expndtw3 at a standstill.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri34\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 There was little motion except that of keen, cutting winds, \expndtw0 shifting dust, and occasional gusts of fine, dry snow. The \expndtw-3 white, shrunken Sun rose in the east, to creep with protracted \expndtw0 slowness across the sky, shedding but the barest trace of warmth. Night came, beautiful and purple and mysterious, \expndtw1 yet bleak as the crystalline spirit of an easy death.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Through the ages, Earth's rate of rotation had been much \expndtw-2 decreased by the tidal drag of Solar and Lunar gravities. The \expndtw-1 attraction of the Moon was now much increased, since the \expndtw-2 satellite was nearer to Terra than it had been in former times.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Because of the decreased rate of rotation, the days and nights \expndtw3 were correspondingly lengthened.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 All the world around the spore plant was a realm of bleak, \expndtw-1 unpeopled desolation. Only once, while the winter lasted, did \expndtw3 anything happen to break the stark monotony. One evening, \expndtw2 at moonrise, a slender metal car flew across the sky with the \expndtw5 speed of a bullet. A thin propelling streamer of fire trailed \expndtw3 in its wake, and the pale moonglow was reflected from its \expndtw4 prow. A shrill, mechanical scream made the rarefied atmo\-sphere vibrate, as the craft approached to a point above the \expndtw5 desert gully, passed, and hurtled away, to leave behind it only a startling silence and an aching memory.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 For the spore plant did remember. Doubtless there was a \expndtw2 touch of fear in that memory, for fear is a universal emotion, \expndtw1 closely connected with the law of self-preservation, which is \expndtw6 engrained in the texture of all life, regardless of its nature \expndtw2 or origin.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Men. Or rather, the cold, cruel, cunning little beings who \expndtw0 were the children of men. The Itorloo, they called themselves. \expndtw4 The invader could not have known their form as yet, or the \expndtw3 name of the creatures from which they were descended. But \expndtw1 it could guess something of their powers from the flying ma\-\expndtw4 chine they had built. Inherited memory must have played a part in giving the queer thing from across the void this dim \expndtw3 comprehension. On other worlds its ancestors had encoun\-\expndtw1 tered animal folk possessing a similar science. And the spore \expndtw7 plant was surely aware that here on Earth the\i  \i0 builders of \expndtw4 this speeding craft were its most deadly enemies.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 The Itorloo, however, inhabiting their vast underground cities, had no knowledge that their planet had received an \expndtw3 alient visitation-one which might have deadly potentiali\-\expndtw2 ties. And in this failure to know, the little spore plant, hidden \expndtw4 in a gully where no Itorloo foot had been set in a thousand \expndtw3 years, was safe.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Now there was nothing for it to do but grow and prepare to reproduce its kind, to be watchful for lesser enemies, and \expndtw2 to develop its own peculiar powers.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri43\sb202\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 It is not to be supposed that it must always lack, by its \expndtw4 very nature, an understanding of physics and chemistry and \expndtw2 biological science. It possessed no test tubes, or delicate in\-\expndtw5 struments, as such things were understood by men. But it \expndtw2 was gifted with something-call it an introspective sense- \expndtw1 which enabled it to study in minute detail every single chem-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 ical and physical process that went on within its own sub\-\expndtw3 stance. It could feel not only the juices coursing sluggishly through its tissues, but it could feel, too, in a kind of atomic \expndtw4 pattern, the change of water and carbon dioxide into starch \expndtw2 and free oxygen.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri5\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 Gift a man with the same power that the invader's kind \expndtw1 had acquired, perhaps by eons of practice and directed will- \expndtw3 that of feeling vividly even the division of cells, and the na\-ture of the protoplasm in his own tissues-and it is not hard \expndtw4 to believe that he would soon delve out even the ultimate \expndtw1 secret of life. And in the secret of life there must be involved \expndtw2 almost every conceivable phase of practical science.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li38\ri14\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 The spore plant proceeded with its marvelous self-educa\-\expndtw1 tion, part of which must have been only recalling to mind the \expndtw4 intricate impressions of inherited memories.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri14\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Meanwhile it studied carefully its bleak surroundings, \expndtw1 prompted not only by fear, but by curiosity as well. To work \expndtw3 effectively, it needed understanding of its environment. In\-\expndtw1 telligence it possessed beyond question; still it was hampered \expndtw5 by many limitations. It was a plant, and plants have not an \expndtw-1 animal's capacity for quick action, either of offense or defense. \expndtw4 Here, forever, the entity from across the void was at a vast \expndtw5 disadvantage, in this place of pitiless competition. In spite \expndtw4 of all its powers, it might now have easily been destroyed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 The delicate, ruined tower of blue porcelain, looming up\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li14\sl-206\slmult0\tlhyph\tx2654\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 from the brink of the gully. \expndtw6 The invader, scrutinizing it\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li14\ri38\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 carefully for hours and days, soon knew every chink and crack \expndtw2 and fanciful arabesque on its visible side. It was only a ruin, \expndtw5 beautiful and mysterious alike by sunshine and moonlight, \expndtw-1 and when adorned with a fine sifting of snow. But the invader, \expndtw2 lost on a strange world, could not be sure of its harmless-\expndtw0 ness.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri19\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 Close to the tower were those rude, high, sugar-loaf \expndtw3 mounds, betraying a sinister cast. They were of hard-packed \expndtw2 earth, dotted with many tiny openings. But in the cold, arid \expndtw4 winter, there was no sign of life about them now.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri48\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 All through those long, arctic months, the spore plant con\-tinued to develop, and to grow toward the reproductive stage. \expndtw-3 And it was making preparations too-combining the knowl\-\expndtw2 edge acquired by its observations with keen guesswork, and \expndtw5 with a science apart from the manual fabrication of metal and other substances,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-206\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 A milder season came at last. The Sun's rays were a little \expndtw-6 warmer now. Some of the snow melted, moistening the ground \expndtw0 enough to germinate Earthly seeds. Shoots sprang up, soon \expndtw-2 to develop leaves and grotesque, devilish-looking flowers.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 In the mounds beside the blue tower a slow awakening \expndtw-2 took place. Millions of little, hard, reddish bodies became \expndtw0 animated once more, ready to battle grim Nature for suste\-\expndtw-3 nance. The ages had done little to the ants, except to increase \expndtw-2 their fierceness and cunning. Almost any organic substances \expndtw0 could serve them as food, and their tastes showed but little \expndtw-1 discrimination between one dainty and another. And it was \expndtw-3 inevitable, of course, but presently they should find the spore \expndtw0 plant.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Nor were they the letter's only enemies, even in this desert \expndtw-5 region. Of the others, Kaw and his black-feathered brood were \expndtw-1 the most potent makers of trouble. Not because they would \expndtw1 attempt active offense themselves, but because they were \expndtw0 able to spread news far and wide.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Kaw wheeled alone now, high in the sunlight, his ebon wings outstretched, his cruel, observant little eyes studying \expndtw1 the desolate terrain below. Buried in the sand, away from \expndtw0 the cold, he and his mate and their companions had slept \expndtw-3 through the winter. Now Kaw was fiercely hungry. He could eat ants if he had to, but there should be better food available \expndtw1 at this time of year.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Once, his keen eyes spied gray movement far below. As \expndtw-1 if his poised and graceful flight was altered by the release of \expndtw0 a trigger, Kaw dived plummet-like and silent toward the \expndtw-4 ground.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 His attack was more simple and direct than usual. But it \expndtw0 was successful. His reward was a large, long-tailed rodent, as clever as himself. The creature uttered squeaks of terror \expndtw-5 as meaningful as human cries for help. In a moment, however, \expndtw1 Kaw split its intelligently rounded cranium with a deter\-\expndtw-5 mined blow from his strong, pointed beak. Bloody brains were \expndtw-3 devoured with indelicate gusto, to be followed swiftly by the \expndtw-2 less tasty flesh of the victim. If Kaw had ever heard of table \expndtw1 manners, he didn't bother with them. Kaw was intensely \expndtw-2 practical.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 His crop full, Kaw was now free to exercise the mischie\-\expndtw-1 vous curiosity which he had inherited from his ancient fore-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 bears. They who had, in the long-gone time when Earth was \expndtw-5 young, uprooted many a young corn shoot, and had yammered \expndtw0 derisively from distant treetops when any irate farmer had \expndtw1 gone after them with a gun.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 With a clownish skip of his black, scaly feet, and a show-\expndtw-1 offish swerve of his dusty ebon wings, Kaw took to the air \expndtw-3 once more. Upward he soared, his white-lidded eyes directed \expndtw1 again toward the ground, seeking something interesting to \expndtw0 occupy his attention and energies.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Thus, presently, he saw a brownish puff that looked like \expndtw1 smoke or dust in the gully beside the ruined blue tower at \expndtw0 the pinnacle of which he and his mate were wont to build \expndtw-3 their nest in summer. Sound came then-\i a \i0 dull, ringing pop. \expndtw-4 The dusty cloud expanded swiftly upward, widening and thin\-\expndtw-1 ning until its opacity was dissipated into the clearness of the \expndtw-2 atmosphere.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri10\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Kaw was really startled. That this was so was evinced by \expndtw2 the fact that he did not voice his harsh, rasping cry, as he \expndtw-4 would have done had a lesser occurrence caught his attention. \expndtw1 He turned back at first, and began to retreat, his mind rec\-\expndtw-2 ognizing only one possibility in what had occurred. Only the \expndtw-5 Itorloo, the Children of Men, as far as he knew, could produce \expndtw-2 explosions like that. And the Itorloo were cruel and danger\-\expndtw-10 ous.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 However, Kaw did not go far in his withdrawal. Pres\-\expndtw-3 ently-since there were no further alarming developments- \expndtw-1 he was circling back toward the source of the cloud and the \expndtw0 noise. But for many minutes he kept what he considered a \expndtw1 safe distance, the while he tried to determine the nature of \expndtw0 the strange, bulging, grayish-green thing down there in the \expndtw-5 gully.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 A closer approach, he decided finally, was best made from \expndtw-1 the ground. And so he descended, alighting several hundred \expndtw1 yards distant from the narrow pocket in the desert.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Thence he proceeded to walk cautiously forward, taking \expndtw0 advantage of the cover of the rocks and dunes, his feathers \expndtw-3 gleaming with a dusty rainbow sheen, his large head bobbing \expndtw-1 with the motion of his advance like any fowl's. His manner \expndtw1 was part laughably ludicrous, part scared, and part deter\-\expndtw-4 mined.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 And then, peering from behind a large boulder, he saw \expndtw-1 what he had come to see. It was a bulging, slightly flattened \expndtw2 sphere, perhaps a yard across. Prom it projected flat, oval\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2323\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 things of a gray-green color, like the leaves of a cactus. And \expndtw4 from these, in turn, grew clublike protuberances of a hard, \expndtw2 horny texture-spore-pods. One of them was blasted open, \expndtw1 doubtless by the pressure of gas accumulated within it. These \expndtw0 spore-pods were probably not as complexly or powerfully de\-\expndtw2 signed as those used by the parent growths on Mars, for they \expndtw1 were intended for a simpler purpose. The entire plant bristled \expndtw3 with sharp spines, and was furred with slender hairs, gleam\-\expndtw4 ing like little silver wires.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Around the growth, thousands of ant bodies lay dead, and \expndtw4 from its vicinity other thousands of living were retreating. Kaw eyed these evidences critically, guessing with wits as \expndtw3 keen as those of a man of old their sinister significance. He \expndtw2 knew, too, that presently other spore-pods would burst with \expndtw3 loud, disturbing noises.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Kaw felt a twinge of dread. Evolution, working through \expndtw0 a process of natural selection-and, in these times of hardship \expndtw1 and pitiless competition, putting a premium on intelligence- \expndtw4 had given to his kind a brain power far transcending that of \expndtw3 his ancestors. He could observe, and could interpret his ob\-servations with the same practical comprehension which a \expndtw4 primitive human being might display. But, like those prim\-\expndtw2 itives, he had developed, too, a capacity to feel superstitious \expndtw-3 awe.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 That gray-green thing of mystery had a fantastic cast \expndtw5 which failed to identify it with-well-with naturalness. \expndtw3 Kaw was no botanist, certainly; still he could recognize the object as a plant of some kind. But those little, bright, eye-\expndtw1 lenses suggested an unimaginable scrutiny. And those spines, silvery in sheen, suggested ghoulish animation, the existence \expndtw6 of which Kaw could sense as a nameless and menacing \expndtw2 unease.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri19\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 He could guess, then, or imagine-or even know, per\-\expndtw4 haps-that here was an intruder who might well make itself felt with far-reaching consequences in the future. Kaw was aware of the simple fact that most of the vegetation he was acquainted with grew from seeds or the equivalent. And he \expndtw2 was capable of concluding that this flattened spheroid repro\-\expndtw6 duced itself in a manner not markedly unfamiliar. That is, \expndtw2 if one was to accept the evidence of the spore-pods. Billions \expndtw0 of spores, scattering with the wind! What would be the result?\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Kaw would not have been so troubled, were it not for those \expndtw6 crumpled thousands of ant bodies, and the enigma of their\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 death. It was clear that the ants had come to feed on the \expndtw0 invader-\i but \i0 they had perished. How? By some virulent plant \expndtw2 poison, perhaps?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 The conclusions which intelligence provides can produce \expndtw-1 fear where fear would otherwise be impossible. Kaw's impulse \expndtw5 was to seek safety in instant departure, but horror and cu\-\expndtw3 riosity fascinated him. Another deeper, more reasoned urge commanded him. When a man smells smoke in his house at \expndtw4 night, he does not run away; he investigates. And so it was \expndtw3 with Kaw.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 He hopped forward cautiously toward the invader. A foot \expndtw4 from its rough, curving side he halted. There, warily, as if \expndtw1 about to attack a poisonous lizard, he steeled himself. Lightly \expndtw5 and swiftly his beak shot forward. It touched the tip of a \expndtw3 sharp spine.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 The result left Kaw dazed. It was as though he had received \expndtw4 a stunning blow on the head, A tingling, constricting sen\-\expndtw3 sation shot through his body, and he was down, flopping in \expndtw5 the dust.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Electricity. Kaw had never heard of such a thing. Elec\-\expndtw6 tricity generated chemically in the form of the invader, by \expndtw1 a process analogous to that by which, in dim antiquity, it had been generated in the bodies of electric eels and other similar \expndtw4 creatures.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 However, there was a broad difference here between the subject and the analogy. Electric eels had never understood the nature of their power, for they were as unresponsible for \expndtw4 it as they were unresponsible for the shape of the flesh in \expndtw1 which they had been cast. The spore plant, on the other hand, \expndtw4 comprehended minutely. Its electric organs had been min\-\expndtw0 utely preplanned and conceived before one living cell of their \expndtw4 structure had been caused to grow on another. And these \expndtw5 organs were not inherited, but were designed to meet the \expndtw2 more immediate needs of self-protection. During the winter, \expndtw4 the invader, studying its surroundings, had guessed well.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Slowly Kaw's brain cleared. He heard an ominous buzzing, \expndtw4 and knew that it issued from the plant. But what he did not \expndtw5 know was that, like the electric organs, the thing's vocal \expndtw3 equipment was invented for possible use in its new environ\-ment. For days, since the coming of spring, the invader had \expndtw0 been listening to sounds of various kinds, and had recognized \expndtw5 their importance on Earth.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Now Kaw had but one thought, and that was to get away. \expndtw4 Still dazed and groggy, he leaped into the air. From behind\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2323\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 him, in his hurried departure, he heard a dull plop. More \expndtw1 billions of spores, mixing with the wind, to be borne far and \expndtw-4 wide.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li43\ri5\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 But now, out of his excitement, Kaw drew a reasoned and \expndtw4 fairly definite purpose. He had a fair idea of what he was \expndtw2 going to do, even though the course of action he had in mind \expndtw5 might involve him with the greatest of his enemies. Yet, \expndtw3 when it came to a choice, he would take the known in pref\-\expndtw4 erence to the unknown.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 He soared upward toward the bright blue of the heavens. \expndtw1 The porcelain tower, the ant hills, and the low mounds which \expndtw3 marked the entrances to the rodent colonies slipped swiftly behind. As if the whole drab landscape were made to move on an endless belt.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi278\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Kaw was looking for his mate, and for the thirty-odd, black-winged individuals who formed his tribe. Singly and \expndtw1 in small groups, he contacted and collected them. Loud, rau\-\expndtw4 cous cries, each with a definite verbal meaning, were ex\-\expndtw3 changed. Menace was on the Earth-bizarre, nameless men\-ace. Excitement grew to fever pitch.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Dusk, beautiful and soft and forbidding, found the bird \expndtw3 clan assembled in a chamber high-placed in a tremendous \expndtw1 edifice many miles from where Kaw had made his discovery. \expndtw3 The building belonged to the same gentle culture which had \expndtw1 produced the blue porcelain tower. The floor of the chamber \expndtw2 was doubtless richly mosaicked. But these were relics of de\-\expndtw5 parted splendor now thickly masked with dust and filth.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 From the walls, however, painted landscapes of ethereal \expndtw5 beauty, and the faces of a happy humankind of long ago \expndtw7 peeped through the gathering shadows. They were like \expndtw5 ghosts, a little awed at what had happened to the world to \expndtw3 which they had once belonged. Those gentle folk had dwelt \expndtw4 in a kindlier climate which was now stripped forever from \expndtw2 the face of the Earth. And they had been wiped out by crea\-\expndtw4 tures who were human too, but of a different, crueler race.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Through delicately carven screens of pierced marble, far up on the sides of the chamber's vast, brooding rotunda, the fading light of day gleamed, like a rose glow through the \expndtw1 lacework of fairies.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 But this palace of old, dedicated to laughter and fun and luxury, and to the soaring dreams of the fine arts, was now \expndtw1 only a chill, dusty gathering place for a clan of black-winged, \expndtw3 gruesome harpies.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2357\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 They chuckled and chattered and cawed, like the crows of \expndtw-4 dead eras. But these sounds, echoing eerily beneath cloistered \expndtw-1 arches, dim and abhorrent in the advancing gloom of night, \expndtw1 differed from that antique yammering. It constituted real, \expndtw0 intelligent conversation.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li48\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Kaw, perched high on a fancifully wrought railing of \expndtw-1 bronze, green with the patina of age, urged his companions \expndtw-4 with loud cries, and with soft, pleading notes, In his own way, \expndtw1 he had some of the qualities of a master orator. But, as all \expndtw0 through an afternoon of similar arguing, he was getting no\-where. His tribe was afraid. And so it was becoming more \expndtw-2 and more apparent that he must undertake his mission alone. \expndtw-1 Even Teka, his mate, would not accompany him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 At last Kaw ruffled his neck feathers, and shook his head violently in an avian gesture of disgust. He leaped from his \expndtw0 perch and shot through a glassless window with an angry scream that was like the curse of a black ghoul.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li19\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 It was the first time that he had ever undertaken a long \expndtw2 journey at night. But in his own judgment, necessity was \expndtw0 such that no delay could be tolerated.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 The stars were sharp and clear, the air chill and frosty. \expndtw-3 The ground was dotted sparsely with faint glimmerings from \expndtw-1 the chimneys of the crude furnaces which, during the colder \expndtw0 nights of spring and fall, warmed the underground rodent \expndtw-6 colonies.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 After a time the Moon rose, huge and yellow, like the eye \expndtw0 of a monster. In that bloom and silence, Kaw found it easy \expndtw1 to feel the creeping and imperceptible, yet avalanching, \expndtw-4 growth of horror. He could not be sure, of course, that he was \expndtw1 right in his guess that the mission he had undertaken was grimly important. But his savage intuition was keen.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The Itorloo-the Children of Men-he must see them, and \expndtw-2 tell them what he knew. Kaw was aware that the Itorioo had \expndtw-4 no love for any but themselves. But they were more powerful \expndtw1 than the winds and the movements of the Sun and Moon \expndtw-5 themselves. They would find a swift means to defeat the silent \expndtw-3 danger.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 And so, till the gray dawn, Kaw flew on and on, covering \expndtw-1 many hundreds of miles, until he saw a low dome of metal, \expndtw-3 capping a hill. The soft half-light of early morning sharpened \expndtw-1 its outlines to those of a beautiful, ebon silhouette, peaceful \expndtw0 and yet forbidding. Beneath it, as Kaw knew, was a shaft \expndtw-2 leading down to the wondrous underworld of the Itorloo, as \expndtw0 intriguing to his mind as a shadowland of magic.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Fear tightened its constricting web around Kaw's heart- \expndtw5 but retreat was something that must not be. There was too much at stake ever to permit a moment of hesitation.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Kaw swung into a wider arc, circling the dome. His long \expndtw1 wings, delicately poised for a soaring glide, did not flap now, \expndtw5 but dipped and rose to capture and make use of the lifting \expndtw2 power of every vagrant wisp of breeze. And from his lungs, \expndtw3 issued a loud, raucous cry.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033 "Itorloo!" he screamed. "Itorloo!"\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The word, except for its odd, parrot-like intonation, was pronounced in an entirely human manner. Kaw, in common \expndtw4 with his crow ancestors, possessed an aptitude for mimicry \expndtw1 of the speech of men.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Tensely he waited for a sign, as he swung lower and nearer \expndtw3 to the dome.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri14\sb158\qc\cf1\lang1033\fs21 3\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri24\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Zar felt irritable. He did not like the lonely surface vigil \expndtw1 and the routine astronomical checkings that constituted his duty. All night he'd sat there at his desk with signal lights \expndtw0 winking around him, helping surface watchers at the other \expndtw-2 stations check the position of a new meteor swarm by means \expndtw-3 of crossing beams of probe rays.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Angles, distances, numbers! Zar was disgusted. Why didn't \expndtw-5 the construction crews hurry? The whole race could have been \expndtw-3 moved to Venus long ago, and might just as well have been. \expndtw-2 For as far as Zar could see, there was no real reason to retain \expndtw0 a hold on the burnt-out Earth. The native Venusians should \expndtw-1 have been crushed a century back. There wasn't any reason \expndtw1 why this pleasant task shouldn't have been accomplished \expndtw-1 then-no reason except stupid, official inertia!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The sound of a shrill bird cry, throbbing from the pickup \expndtw1 diaphragm on the wall, did not add any sweetening potion \expndtw-2 to Zar's humor. At first he paid no attention; but the insistent screaming of the name of his kind-"Itorloo! Itorloo!"-at \expndtw0 length aroused him to angry action.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 His broad, withered face, brown and hideous and goblin-\expndtw-3 like, twisted itself into an ugly grimace. He bounded up from \expndtw-1 his chair, and seized a small, pistol-like weapon.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 A moment later he was out on the sandy slopes of the hill, \expndtw3 looking up at the black shape that swooped and darted \expndtw-3 timidly, close to his head. On impulse Zar raised his weapon, \expndtw-1 no thought of compassion in his mind.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2304\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li307\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 But Raw screamed again: "Itorloo! Loaaah!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 In Zar's language, "Loaaah!" meant "Danger!" very em\-\expndtw2 phatically, Zar's hand, bent on execution, was stayed for the \expndtw3 moment at least. His shrewd little eyes narrowed, and from \expndtw2 his lips there issued yammering sounds which constituted an \expndtw4 understandable travesty of the speech of Kaw's kind.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li67\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Speak your own tongue, creature!" he ordered sharply, "I can understand!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Still swooping and darting nervously, Kaw screamed forth \expndtw2 his story, describing in quaint manner the thing he had seen, \expndtw3 employing comparisons such as any primitive savage would \expndtw4 use. In this way the invader was like a boulder, in that way \expndtw6 it was like a thorn cactus, and in other ways it resembled \expndtw3 the instruments of death which the Itorioo employed. In all \expndtw4 ways it was strange, and unlike anything ever seen before.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 And Zar Listened with fresh and calculated attention, get\-\expndtw5 ting from this bird creature the information he required to \expndtw6 locate the strange miracle. Kaw was accurate and clear \expndtw4 enough in giving his directions.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Zar might have forgotten his inherent ruthlessness where his feathered informer was concerned, had not Kaw become \expndtw1 a trifle too insistent in his exhortations to action. He lingered \expndtw2 too long and screamed too loudly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Irritated, Zar raised his weapon. Kaw swept away at once, but there was no chance for him to get out of range. Invisible \expndtw2 energy shot toward him. Black feathers were torn loose, and \expndtw5 floated aflame in the morning breeze. Kaw gave a shrill \expndtw3 shriek of agony and reproach. Erratically he wavered to the \expndtw0 ground.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi274\ri19\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Zar did not even glance toward him, but retraced his way \expndtw1 leisurely into the surface dome. An hour later, however, hav\-ing received permission from his superiors, he had journeyed \expndtw5 across those hundreds of miles to the gully beside the blue \expndtw3 porcelain tower. And there he bent over the form of the in\-\expndtw2 vader. Zar was somewhat awed. He had never been to Mars. \expndtw4 For two hundred thousand years or more, no creature from \expndtw1 Earth had ever visited that planet. The Itorloo were too prac\-\expndtw2 tical to attempt such a useless venture, and their more recent \expndtw3 predecessors had lacked some of the adventurous incentive \expndtw4 required for so great and hazardous a journey.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 But Zar had perused old records, belonging to an era half a million years gone by. He knew that this gray-green thing \expndtw7 was at least like the flora of ancient Mars. Into his mind,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2347\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 matter-of-fact for the most part, came the glimmerings of \i a \expndtw1\i0 mighty romance, accentuating within him a consciousness of nameless dread, and of grand interplanetary distances.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Spines. Bulging, hard-shelled, pulpy leaves that stored \expndtw-1 oxygen under pressure. Chlorophyl that absorbed sunshine \expndtw1 and made starch, just as in an ordinary Earthly plant. Only \expndtw0 the ehlorophyl of this growth was beneath a thick, translu\-cent shell, which altered the quality of the light it could reflect. That was why astronomers in the pre-interplanetary \expndtw-2 era had doubted the existence of vegetation on Mars. Green \expndtw2 plants of Terra, when photographed with infrared light, \expndtw0 looked silvery, like things of frost. But-because of their \expndtw-1 shells-Martian vegetation could not betray its presence in \expndtw2 the same manner.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Zar shuddered, though the morning air was not chill by \expndtw-2 his standards. The little gleaming orbs of the invader seemed \expndtw0 to scrutinize him critically and coldly, and with a vast wis\-dom. Zar saw the shattered spore-pods, knowing that their contents now floated in the air, like dust-floated and set\-\expndtw-1 tled-presenting a subtle menace whose tool was the unex\-pected, and against which-because of the myriad numbers \expndtw-4 of the widely scattered spores-only the most drastic methods \expndtw-2 could prevail.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li5\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Belatedly, then, anger came. Zar drew a knife from his \expndtw2 belt. Half in fury and half in experiment, he struck the in\-\expndtw-3 vader, chipping off a piece of its shell. He felt a sharp electric \expndtw0 shock, though by no means strong enough to kill a creature of his size. From the wound he made in the plant, oxygen \expndtw-3 sizzled softly. But the invader offered no further defense. For \expndtw1 the present it had reached the end of its resources.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Zar bounded back. His devilish little weapon flamed then, \expndtw-1 for a full two minutes. When he finally released pressure on \expndtw-3 its trigger, there was only a great, smouldering, glowing hole \expndtw1 in the ground where the ghoulish thing from across space \expndtw-3 had stood.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Such was Zar's and the entire Itorloo race's answer to the \expndtw-4 intruder. Swift destruction! Zar chuckled wickedly. And there \expndtw-3 were ways to rid Earth of the treacherous menace of the plant \expndtw-1 intelligences of Mars entirely, even though they would take \expndtw-2 time.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Besides there was Venus, the world of promise. Soon half \expndtw0 of the Itorloo race would be transported there. The others \expndtw-2 certainly could be accommodated if it became necessary.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sb302\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs18 *     *     *\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\sb29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Necessary? Zar laughed. He must be getting jittery. What \expndtw4 had the Itorloo to fear from those inert, vegetable things? \expndtw7 Now he aimed his weapon toward the blue tower, and \expndtw1 squeezed the trigger. Weakened tiles crumbled and fell down with a hollow, desolate rattle that seemed to mock Zar's ruth-\expndtw0 lessness.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Suddenly he felt sheepish. To every intelligent being there \expndtw2 is a finer side that prompts and criticizes. And for a moment \expndtw3 Zar saw himself and his people a little more as they really \expndtw-2 were.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Unlike the lesser creatures, the Children of Men had not \expndtw1 advanced very much mentally. The ups and downs of history \expndtw3 had not favored them. War had reversed the benefits of nat\-\expndtw0 ural selection, destroying those individuals of the species best \expndtw6 suited to carry it on to greater glory. Zar knew this, and \expndtw4 perhaps his senseless assault upon the ruined building was \expndtw3 but a subconscious gesture of resentment toward the people \expndtw4 of long ago who had been kinder and wiser and happier.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li24\ri19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Zar regretted his recent act of destroying the spore plant. \expndtw2 It should have been preserved for study. But now-well- \expndtw3 what was done could not be changed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 He entered his swift, gleaming rocket car. When he closed \expndtw6 its cabin door behind him, it seemed that he was shutting \expndtw3 out a horde of mocking, menacing ghosts.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri24\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 In a short while he was back at the surface station. Re\-\expndtw3 lieved there of his duty by another little brown man, he de\-scended the huge cylindrical shaft which dropped a mile to \expndtw0 the region that was like the realm of the Cyclops. Thrumming \expndtw5 sounds, winking lights, shrill shouts of the workers, blasts \expndtw3 of incandescent flame, and the colossal majesty of\i  \i0 gigantic machines, toiling tirelessly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri38\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 In a vast, pillared plaza the keels of spaceships were being \expndtw2 laid-spaceships for the migration and the conquest. In per\-\expndtw3 haps a year-a brief enough time for so enormous a task- they would soar away from Earth, armed to the teeth. There would be thousands of the craft then, for all over the world, \expndtw0 in dozens of similar underground places, they were in process of construction.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\ri29\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\tlhyph\tx4411\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Zar's vague fears were dissipated in thoughts of conquest to come. The Venus folk annihilated in withering clouds of \expndtw2 flame. The glory of the Itorloo carried on and on\expndtw3 -\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2318\sb307\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Kaw was not dead. That this was so was almost a miracle, \expndtw0 made possible, perhaps, by a savage, indomitable will to live. \expndtw4 In his small bird body there was a fierce, burning courage that compensated for many of his faults.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 For hours he lay there on the desert sand, a pathetic and crumpled bundle of tattered feathers, motionless except for \expndtw0 his labored breathing, and the blinking of his hate-filled eyes. Blood dripped slowly from the hideous, seared wound on his \expndtw4 breast, and his whole body ached with a vast, dull anguish.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 Toward sundown, however, he managed to hobble and flut\-\expndtw2 ter forward a few rods. Here he buried himself shallowly in \expndtw0 the sand, where his chilled body would be protected from the \expndtw2 nocturnal cold.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 For three days he remained thus interred. He was too \expndtw1 weak and sick to leave his burrow. Bitterness toward Zar and \expndtw4 the other cruel Itorloo, he did not feel. Kaw had lived too \expndtw3 long in this harsh region to expect favors. But a black fury \expndtw1 stormed within him, nevertheless-a black fury as agonizing \expndtw2 as physical pain. He wanted revenge. No, he needed revenge \expndtw1 as much as he needed the breath of life. He did not know that Itorloo plans directed against the intruding spores from Mars \expndtw2 were already under way, and that-as a by-product-they \expndtw4 would destroy his own kind, and all primitive life on the surface of the Earth.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Kaw left his hiding place on the fourth- day. Luck favored \expndtw3 him, for he found a bit of carrion-part of the dead body of \expndtw5 an antelopelike creature.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Somehow, through succeeding weeks and days, he man\-\expndtw0 aged to keep alive. The mending of his injured flesh was slow \expndtw4 indeed, for the burnt wound was unclean. But he started \expndtw5 toward home, hopping along at first, then flying a little, a \expndtw2 hundred yards at a time, Tedium and pain were endless. But the fiendish light of what must seem forever fruitless hatred, never faded in those wicked, white-lidded eyes. Frequently K\expndtw1 aw's long, black beak snapped in a vicious expression of \expndtw3 boundless determination.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri24\sb10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 Weeks of long days become a month, and then two months. \expndtw2 Starved to a black-clad skeleton, and hopeless of ever being \expndtw0 fit to hunt again, Kaw tottered into a deep gorge one evening. \expndtw5 Utterly spent, he sank to the ground here, his brain far too\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-202\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 weary to take note of any subtle unusualness which the deep\-\expndtw-1 ening shadows half masked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He scarcely saw the rounded things scattered here. Had \expndtw-2 he noticed them, his blurred vision would have named them \expndtw-1 small boulders and nothing more. Fury, directed at the Itor-\expndtw-2 loo, had made him almost forget the spore plants. He did not \expndtw1 know that this was to be a place of magic, Chance and the \expndtw-3 vagrant winds had made it so.\i  A \i0 hundred spores, out of many \expndtw-2 millions, had lodged here. Conditions had been just right for \expndtw-3 their swift development. It was warm, but not too warm. And \expndtw1 there was moisture too. Distantly Kaw heard the trickle of \expndtw0 water. He wanted to get to it, but his feebleness prevented \expndtw-6 him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri24\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He must have slept, then, for a long time, It seemed that \expndtw-1 he awoke at the sound of an odd buzzing, which may have possessed hypnotic properties. He felt as weak and stiff as \expndtw-2 before, but he was soothed and peaceful now, in spite of his \expndtw3 thirst and hunger.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 He looked about. The gorge was deep and shadowy. A still \expndtw0 twilight pervaded it, though sunshine gilded its bulging, ir\-\expndtw-2 regular lips far above. These details he took in in a moment.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He looked, then, at the grotesque shapes around him- \expndtw1 things which, in the deeper darkness, he had thought to be \expndtw0 only boulders. But now he saw that they were spore plants, \expndtw-2 rough, eerie, brooding, with their little, lensed light-sensitive \expndtw-1 organs agleam.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li14\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The excitement of terror seized him, and he wanted to flee, \expndtw-1 as from a deadly enemy. But this urge did not last long. The \expndtw-2 hypnotic buzz, which issued from the diaphragmic vocal or\-\expndtw0 gans of the plants, soothed and soothed and soothed, until \expndtw-1 Kaw felt very relaxed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li10\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 There were dead ants around him, doubtless the victims \expndtw-3 of electrocution. Since no better food was within reach, Kaw h\expndtw0 opped here and there, eating greedily.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 After that he hobbled to the brackish spring that dripped \expndtw-3 from the wall, and drank. Next he dropped to the ground, his \expndtw0 fresh drowsiness characterized by sleepy mutterings about \expndtw-2 himself, his people, and the all-wise Itorloo, And it seemed, \expndtw-1 presently, that the buzzing of the invaders changed in char\-acter at last, seeming to repeat his own mutterings clumsily, \expndtw2 like a child learning to talk.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi226\li5\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Kaw! Itorloo!" And other words and phrases belonging \expndtw-2 to the speech of the crow clans.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2318\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 It was the beginning of things miraculous and wonderful \expndtw2 for Kaw, the black-feathered rascal. Many suns rose and set, \expndtw3 but somehow he felt no urge to wander farther toward his home region. He did not know the Lethean fascination of \expndtw2 simple hypnotism. True, he sallied afield farther and farther, \expndtw3 as his increasing strength permitted. He hunted now, eating \expndtw5 bugs and beetles for the most part. But always he returned \expndtw3 to the gorge, there to listen to the weird growths, buzzing, \expndtw2 chattering, speaking to him in his own tongue. In them there \expndtw1 seemed somehow to be a vague suggestion of the benignance \expndtw4 of some strange, universal justice, in spite of their horror.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 And night and day, rocket cars, streamlined and gleaming, \expndtw3 swept over the desert. Now and then beams of energy were unleashed from them, whipping the sand into hot flame, de\-\expndtw4 stroying the invading spore plants that had struck root here \expndtw3 and there. Only the law of chance kept them away from the \expndtw5 gorge, as doubtless it allowed them to miss other hiding \expndtw2 places of alien life. For the wilderness was wide.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li24\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 But this phase of the Itorloo battle against the invading \expndtw4 spore plants was only a makeshift preliminary, intended to \expndtw5 keep the intruders in check. Only the Itorloo themselves \expndtw3 knew about the generators now being constructed far un\-\expndtw0 derground-generators which, with unseen emanations, could \expndtw3 wipe out every speck of living protoplasm on the exposed \expndtw6 crust of the planet. Theirs was a monumental task, and a \expndtw3 slow one. But they meant to be rid, once and for all, of the subtle threat which had come perhaps to challenge their do\-\expndtw2 minion of the Earth. Kaw and his kind, the rodents, the ants, and all the other simple People of the Dusk of Terra's Great\-\expndtw1 ness, were seemingly doomed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\ri58\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Kaw's hatred of the Children of Men was undimmed, more \expndtw4 justly than he was aware. Thus it was easy for him to listen \expndtw3 when he was commanded: "Get an Itorloo! Bring him here! \expndtw-2 Alone! On foot!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Zar was the logical individual to produce, for he was the \expndtw4 nearest, the most readily available. But summer was almost \expndtw3 gone before Kaw encountered the right opportunity, though \expndtw5 he watched with care at all times.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Evening, with Venus and the Moon glowing softly in the sky. Kaw was perched on a hilltop, close to the great surface dome, watching as he had often watched before. Out of its \expndtw5 cylindrical hangar, Zar's flier darted, and then swung in a \expndtw9 slow arc. Presently it headed at a leisurely pace into the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2342\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 northwest. For once its direction was right, and it was not \expndtw0 traveling too fast for Kaw to keep pace with it. Clearly its pilot was engaged in a rambling pleasure jaunt, which had \expndtw-3 no definite objective,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tlhyph\tx4402\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Kaw, pleased and excited, fell in behind at a safe distance. \expndtw0 There he remained until the craft was near the gorge. Now \expndtw1 there was danger, but if things were done right\expndtw3 -\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He flapped his wings violently to catch up with his me\-\expndtw-3 chanical quarry. He screamed loudly: "Itorloo! Itorloo! De\-\expndtw-7 scend! Descend! I am Kaw, who informed you of the unknowns \expndtw-3 long ago! I would show you more! More! More!" All this in \expndtw1 ahrill, avian chatterings.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Kaw's trickery was naively simple. But Zar heard, above \expndtw-3 the noise of his rocket blasts. Suspicion? He felt it, of course. \expndtw0 There was no creature in this era who accepted such an in\-\expndtw-3 vitation without question. Yet he was well armed. In his own \expndtw0 judgment he should be quite safe. Curiosity led him on.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He shut off his rocket motors, and uttered the bird jargon, \expndtw0 questioning irritably: "Where? What is it, black trickster?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Kaw skittered about defensively. "Descend!'" he repeated. "Descend to the ground. The thing that bears you cannot take \expndtw-2 you where we must go!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li34\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The argument continued for some little time, primitive \expndtw0 with matching curiosity and suspicion.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 And meanwhile, in the gloomy gorge cut in vague geologic \expndtw-2 times by some gushing stream, entities waited patiently. Sap \expndtw1 flowed in their tissues, as in the tissues of any other vege\-\expndtw-1 tation, but the fine hairs on their forms detected sounds, and \expndtw0 their light-sensitive cells served as eyes. Within their forms \expndtw-1 were organs equivalent to human nerve and brain. They did not use tools or metals, but worked in another way, dictated \expndtw0 by their vast disadvantages when compared to animal in\-telligences. Yet they had their advantages, too.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Now they waited, dim as bulking shadows. They detected \expndtw0 the excited cries of Kaw, who was their instrument. And \expndtw9 perhaps they grew a little more tense, like a hunter in \expndtw4 a blind, when he hears the quacking of ducks through a \expndtw-11 fog.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li5\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 There was a grating of pebbles and a little brown man, \expndtw0 clad in a silvery tunic, stepped cautiously into view. There \expndtw2 was a weapon clutched in his slender hand. He paused, as \expndtw1 if suddenly awed and fearful. But no opportunity to retreat\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 was given him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri43\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 *    *    *\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sb168\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 A spore-pod exploded with a loud plop in the confined space. A mass of living dust filled the gorge, like a dense, \expndtw1 opaque cloud, choking, blinding. Zar squeezed the trigger of his weapon impulsively. Several of the invaders were blasted \expndtw5 out of existence. Stones clattered down from where the \expndtw4 unaimed beam of energy struck the wall.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Panic seized the little man, causing him to take one stran\-gling breath. In a few moments he was down, writhing help\-less on the ground. Choked by the finely divided stuff, his \expndtw3 consciousness seemed to drop into a black hole of infinity. \expndtw2 He, Zar, seemed about to pay for his misdeeds. With a mad fury he heard the derisive screams of Kaw, who had tricked \expndtw5 him. But he could not curse in return, and presently his \expndtw4 thoughts vanished away to nothing.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Awareness of being alive came back to him very slowly \expndtw2 and painfully. At first he felt as though he had pneumonia- fever, suffocation, utter vagueness of mind. Had the spores germinated within his lungs, he would surely have died. But they did not, there; conditions, were too moist and warm for \expndtw4 them. Gradually he coughed them up.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 He felt cold with a bitter, aching chill, for the weather had \expndtw4 changed with the lateness of the season. Fine snow sifted down into the gorge from clouds that were thin and pearly and sun-gilded. Each tiny crystal of ice glittered with a \expndtw2 thousand prismatic hues as it slowly descended. And the si\-\expndtw3 lence was deathly, bearing a burden of almost tangible des\-\expndtw2 olation. In that burden there seemed to crowd all the antique history of a world-history whose grand movement shaded \expndtw6 gradually toward stark, eternal death.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Zar wanted to flee this awful place that had become like part of another planet. He jerked his body as if to scramble \expndtw4 feebly to his feet. He found then that he was restrained by \expndtw5 cordlike tendrils, hard as horn, and warm with a faint, fer-\expndtw2 mentive, animal-like heat. Like the beat of a nameless pulse, \expndtw0 tiny shocks of electricity tingled his flesh in a regular rhythm.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 It was clear to Zar that while he had been inert the tendrils \expndtw4 had fastened themselves slowly around him, in a way that was half like the closing of an ancient Venus Flytrap, car\-\expndtw3 nivorous plant of old, and half like the simple creeping of a vine on a wall.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Those constricting bonds were tightening now. Zar could \expndtw5 feel the tiny thorns with which they were equipped biting into his flesh. He screamed in horror and pain. His cries \expndtw2 echoed hollowly in the cold gorge. The snow, slowly sifting,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li58\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 and the silence, both seemed to mock-by their calm, pitiless \expndtw3 lack of concern-the plight in which he found himself.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li53\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tlhyph\tx893\cf1\lang1033\expndtw12 And then a voice, chattering faintly in the language \expndtw6 of Kaw the Crow: "Be still. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. \expndtw0 Peace\expndtw3 -\expndtw0 "\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 Gradually the sleepy tone quieted Zar, even though he \expndtw3 was aware that whatever the invaders might do to him could \expndtw1 bring him no good.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Plants with voices. Almost human voices! Some sort of \expndtw3 tympanic organs, hidden, perhaps, in some of those pulpy \expndtw2 leaves, Zar judged. From the records of the old explanations \expndtw6 of Mars, he knew a little about these intruders, and their \expndtw0 scheme of life. Organs, with the functions of mechanical con\-\expndtw-1 trivances, conceived and grown as they were needed! An alien \expndtw2 science, adapted to the abilities and limitations of vegetative \expndtw4 intelligences-intelligences that had never controlled the mining and smelting and shaping of metal!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri38\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Zar, tight in the clutch of those weird monstrosities, re\-\expndtw3 alized some of their power. Strangely it did not affect the \expndtw4 hypnotic calm that wrapped him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Mars. These wondrous people of the dusk of worlds had \expndtw2 survived all animal life on the Red Planet. They had spanned \expndtw4 Mars in a vast, irregularly formed network, growing along dry river beds, and the arms of vanished seas. They had not \expndtw3 been mere individuals, for they had cooperated to form a \expndtw-1 civilization of a weird, bizarre sort. Great, hollow roots, buried \expndtw5 beneath the ground, had drawn water from melting polar \expndtw1 snows. Those roots had been like water conduits. A rhythmic \expndtw5 pulsation within them had pumped the water across thou\-\expndtw3 sands of miles of desert, providing each plant along the way \expndtw5 with moisture, even on that dying and almost dehydrated \expndtw3 world. The canals of Mars! Yes, a great irrigation system, a \expndtw2 great engineering feat-but out of the scope of Itorloo meth\-ods entirely.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri53\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 And through the Jiving texture of those immense joining \expndtw2 roots, too, had doubtless flown the impulses of thoughts and \expndtw5 commands-the essence of leadership and security. Even \expndtw2 now, when Mars was. all but dead, its final civilization must \expndtw4 still be trying to fight on.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Strange, wonderful times those old explorers had seen. \expndtw5 Cold sunlight on bizarre ruins, left by extinct animal folk. Thin air and arctic weather, worse than that of Earth in the \expndtw4 present age. Death everywhere, except for those vegetative\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 beings grouped in immense, spiny, ribbonlike stretches. Dim \expndtw-1 shapes at night under hurtling Phobos, the nearer moon, and \expndtw-3 Deimos, her leisurely sister. Zar did not know just how it had \expndtw-1 happened, but he had heard that only a few of those human \expndtw-2 adventurers had escaped from the people of Mars with their \expndtw-4 lives.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Zar's thought rambled on in a detached way that was odd \expndtw1 for him. Perhaps Nature had a plan that she used over and \expndtw-4 over again. On Terra the great reptiles of the Mesozoic period \expndtw-2 had died out to be replaced by mammals. Men and the Chil\-\expndtw0 dren of Men had become supreme at last.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li19\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Succession after succession, according to some well-or\-\expndtw-4 dered scheme? In the desolate quiet of falling snow, tempered \expndtw-2 only by the muted murmur of the frigid wind, it was easy for \expndtw-1 Zar to fall prey to such a concept, particularly since he was \expndtw-2 held powerless in the grasp of the invaders. Tendrils, thorny, stinging tendrils, which must have been grown purposely to receive an Itorloo captive! Zar could realize, then, a little of \expndtw0 the fantastic introspective sense which gave these beings a direct contact with the physical secrets of their forms. And \expndtw-1 in consequence a knowledge of chemistry and biology that \expndtw0 was clearer than anything that an Itorloo might be expected \expndtw2 to attain along similar lines.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri38\sb10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Zar wanted to shriek, but his awe and his weakness stran\-\expndtw0 gled him beyond more than the utterance of a gasping sigh.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\ri29\sb206\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Then the mighty spirit of his kind reasserted itself. Zar \expndtw-1 was aware that most probably he himself would presently \expndtw-3 perish; but the Itorloo, his kind, his real concern, could never \expndtw-1 lose! Not with all the mighty forces at their command! To \expndtw-3 suppose that they could be defeated by the sluggish intruders \expndtw0 was against reason! In a matter of months-when the prep\-\expndtw2 arations for the vast purification process had been com\-\expndtw-1 pleted-Earth would be free of those intruders once more, \expndtw1 Zar's brown face contracted into a leer of defiance that had \expndtw0 a touch of real greatness. Brutality, force, cunning, and the \expndtw-4 capacity for quick action-those were the tools of the Itorloo, \expndtw-2 but they had strength too. Zar was no fool-no short-sighted \expndtw-3 individual who leaps to hasty, optimistic conclusions-but in \expndtw1 a contest between the Itorloo and the invaders there could \expndtw-1 be but a single outcome by any standard within Zar's reach.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri53\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 In this belief, he was comforted, and his luck, presently, \expndtw0 after long hours of suffering, seemed far better than he had\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-206\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 any reason to hope for. The hard, thorny tendrils unques\-\expndtw1 tionably were relaxing from about him a very little. He could \expndtw4 not guess why, and in consequence he suspected subtle \expndtw2 treachery, But he could find no reason to suppose that some hidden motive was responsible.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 All his avid energies were concentrated, now, on escape. \expndtw3 He concluded that perhaps the cold had forced the slight \expndtw1 vegetable relaxation, and he proceeded to make the best pos\-\expndtw6 sible use of his chances. Some time daring the night his \expndtw3 straining hands reached the hilt of his knife. Not long after\-ward Zar clutched his blast gun.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li53\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Zar limped stiffly to his flier, cursing luridly; while behind \expndtw2 him in the gorge, red firelight flickered, and wisps of smoke \expndtw3 lanced into the frigid wind.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Zar wished that Kaw was somewhere in sight, to receive \expndtw4 his wrath too. The ebon rascal had vanished.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Winter deepened during succeeding days. The Itorloo in \expndtw4 their buried cities felt none of its rigors, however.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 Zar had submitted to a physical examination after his \expndtw2 weird adventure, and had been pronounced fit. And of all his \expndtw3 people he seemed to toil the most conscientiously.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 The Venus project. Soon the Children of Men would be \expndtw4 masters of that youthful, sunward planet. The green plains \expndtw1 and jungles, and the blue skies of Venus. Soon! Soon! Soon! \expndtw5 Zar was full of dreams of adventure and brutal pleasure.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Periodically the rocket craft of the Itorloo sallied forth \expndtw2 from the cities to stamp out the fresh growth of the invaders. \expndtw3 The oxygen-impregnated substance of their forms flamed in \expndtw5 desert gullies, and along the rims of shrivelled salt seas, \expndtw0 where the spore plants were trying to renew their civilization. \expndtw2 Most of them did not get a chance, even, to approach matu\-\expndtw3 rity. But because even one mature survivor could pollute the \expndtw0 Earth with billions of spores, impossible to destroy otherwise, \expndtw4 the purification process must be carried through.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Spring again, and then midsummer. The spaceships were \expndtw6 almost ready to leap Venus-ward on the great adventure. \expndtw4 The generators, meant to spread life-destroying emanations \expndtw3 over the crust and atmosphere above, stood finished and \expndtw5 gleaming in the white-domed caverns that housed them.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Zar looked at the magnificent, glittering array in the spaceship construction chamber of his native community \expndtw4 with pride and satisfaction.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Tomorrow," he said to a companion, a fierce light in his \expndtw-3 eyes.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi288\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The othgr nodded, the white glare of the atomic welding \expndtw2 furnaces lighting up his features, and betraying there a wolf-ish grin of pleasure.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li86\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Tomorrow," Zar repeated, an odd sort of vagueness in his \expndtw-1 tone.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2544\sb173\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-8 5     \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri5\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Kaw had long ago rejoined his tribe. Life, during those recent months, had been little different from what had been usual in the crow clans for thousands of years. For purposes \expndtw2 of safety, Kaw had led his flock into a desert fastness where patrolling Itorloo fliers were seldom seen, and where only a \expndtw4 few spore plants had yet appeared.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 His first intimation that all was not well was a haunting \expndtw2 feeling of unease, which came upon him quite suddenly one day just before noon. His body burned and prickled uncom\-\expndtw1 fortably, and he felt restless. Other than these dim evidences, \expndtw5 there was nothing to betray the invisible hand of death.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Emanations, originating in the generators of the Itorloo, \expndtw3 far underground. But Kaw was no physicist. He knew only \expndtw5 that he and his fellows were vaguely disturbed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 With Teka, his mate, and several of their companions, he \expndtw2 soared high into the sky. There, for a time, he felt better. Far \expndtw3 overhead, near the Sun's bright disc, he glimpsed the incan\-\expndtw4 descent streamers of Itorloo vessels, distant in space. And \expndtw3 preseritly, with little attention, he saw those vessels-there \expndtw5 were five in the group-turn back toward Earth.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 The advance in the strength of the deadly emanations was \expndtw3 slow. Vast masses of rock, covering the upper crust of the planet in a thin shell, had to develop a kind of resonance to \expndtw4 them before they could reach their maximum power.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 By nightfall Kaw felt only slightly more uncomfortable. By the following dawn, however, he was definitely droopy \expndtw2 and listless. The gradual, worldwide process of purification \expndtw1 advanced, directed at the invaders, but promising destruction \expndtw4 to the less favored native life of Earth, too.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Four days. Huddled in a pathetic group in a ruined struc\-\expndtw6 ture of antiquity, Kaw's tribe waited. Their features were \expndtw2 dull and ruffled, and they shivered as if with cold. Some of \expndtw5 them uttered low, sleepy twitterings of anguish.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 That evening Kaw watched the pale Moon rise from a \expndtw3 battered window embrasure. He was too weak to stand, but \expndtw2 rested slumped forward on his breast. His eyes were rheumy\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tlhyph\tx1982\cf1\lang1033\fs21 and heavy-lidded, but they still held a savage glitter of de\-fiance, which perhaps would burn in them even after they \expndtw-1 had ceased to live and see. And Raw's clouded mind could \expndtw2 still hazard a guess as to the identity of the author of his \expndtw-2 woes. Brave but impotent, he could still scream a hoarse \expndtw1 challenge inspired by a courage as deathless as the ages. \expndtw-5 "Itorloo! Itorloo!\expndtw3 -\expndtw0 "\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\ri10\sb192\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Some time before the first group of spaceships, headed for \expndtw-4 Venus, had been recalled to Earth, Zar, assigned to the second \expndtw1 group, which had not yet entered the launching tubes, had collapsed against his instrument panels.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 His affliction had come with a suddenness that was utterly \expndtw-1 abrupt. Recovering from his swoon, he found himself lying \expndtw0 on a narrow pallet in the hospital quarters of the city. His \expndtw-3 vision was swimming and fogged, and he felt hot and cold by \expndtw1 turns.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 But he could see the silvery tunic'd figure of the physician \expndtw-1 standing close to him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "What is wrong?" he stammered. "What is it that has \expndtw-1 happened to me? A short time ago I was well!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi269\li5\ri29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Much is wrong," the physician returned quietly. "And \expndtw-1 you have not really been well for a long time. A germ dis\-\expndtw0 ease-a type of thing which we thought our sanitation had \expndtw-3 stamped out millenniums ago-has been ravaging your brain \expndtw0 and nerves for months! Only its insidiousness prevented it \expndtw-2 from being discovered earlier. During its incipient stages the \expndtw-1 poisons of it seem actually to stimulate mental and physical \expndtw0 activity, giving a treacherous impression of robust health. \expndtw-1 And we know, certainly, that this disease is extremely con\-tagious. It does not reveal itself easily, but I and others have \expndtw1 examined many apparently healthy individuals with great \expndtw3 care. In each there is the telltale evidence that the disease \expndtw-1 is not only present, but far advanced. Hundreds have col\-\expndtw-2 lapsed as you have. More, surely, will follow. It is my belief \expndtw3 that the entire race has been afflicted. And the plague has \expndtw1 a fatal look. Panic has broken out. There is a threatened \expndtw-1 failure of power and food supplies. Perhaps an antitoxin can \expndtw0 be found-but there is so little time."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri58\sb10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Half delirious, Zar could still grasp the meaning of the physician's words, and could understand the origin of the \expndtw-4 disease.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2093\li2328\ri58\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5\fs21 He began to mutter with seeming incoherence: "The \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\sl-197\slmult0\tlhyph\tx4018\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 changing Earth. Reptiles. Mammals. Men\expndtw3 -\expndtw0  \expndtw-2 Succession\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\sl-197\slmult0\tlhyph\tx974\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 Nature\expndtw3 -\expndtw0 "\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li38\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 His voice took on a fiercer tone. "Fight, Itorloo!" he \expndtw2 screamed. "Fight!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\sb10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Cruel he was, as were all his people, but he had pluck. \expndtw4 Suddenly he arose to a sitting posture on his bed His eyes \expndtw5 flamed. If his act represented the final dramatic gesture of \expndtw3 all the hoary race of man, still it was magnificent. Nor were any tears to be shed, for extinction meant only a task com\-\expndtw1 pleted.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tlhyph\tx3149\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Fight!" he shouted again, as if addressing a limitless \expndtw1 multitude. "Fight, Itorloo! Study! Learn! Work! It is the only \expndtw4 hope! Keep power flowing in the purification generators if \expndtw1 you can. The old records of the explorations of Mars-those \expndtw0 plants! Their approach to problems is different from our own. \expndtw2 No metals. No machines as we know them. But in hidden \expndtw4 compartments in their tissues it was easy for them to create \expndtw1 the bacteria of death! They \i invented \i0 those bacteria, and grew \expndtw3 them, breaking them away from their own substance. Some \expndtw2 way, when I was a captive, I was infected. The thorns on the \expndtw7 tendrils that held me! I was the carrier! Find an antitoxin \expndtw2 to fight the plague, Itorloo! Work\expndtw3 -\expndtw0 "\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri34\sb149\qc\cf1\lang1033\fs22 6\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri34\sb187\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 One year. Two. Three. The sunshine was brilliant, the air almost warm. The rusty desert hills in the distance were the same. Ancient ruins brooded in the stillness, as they had for \expndtw1 so long. On the slopes ant hordes were busy. Rodent colonies \expndtw2 showed similar evidence of population. In the sky, Kaw and \expndtw3 his companions wheeled and turned lazily.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 This was the same Earth, with several changes. Bulbous, \expndtw1 spiny things peopled the gorges, and were probing out across \expndtw0 the desert, slowly building-with hollow, connecting roots- \expndtw3 the water pipes of a tremendous irrigation system. Like that \expndtw5 of Mars, and like that of Ganymede, moon of Jupiter, in \expndtw2 former ages. Saline remnants of seas and polar snows could \expndtw3 alike provide the needed moisture.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Thoughts traveled swiftly along connecting roots. Little \expndtw2 orbs and wicked spines gleamed. The invaders were at peace \expndtw3 now. Only the Itorloo could have threatened their massed \expndtw5 might. There was no danger in the lesser native life.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 The subterranean cities of the former rulers of Earth were \expndtw6 inhabited only by corpses and by intruding ants, who, like\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 the other fauna of this planet, were immune to the plague, \expndtw2 which had been directed and designed for the Itorloo alone. \expndtw4 The last race of men was now one with the reptiles of the \expndtw1 Mesozoic. But all was peace.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Kaw screamed put his contentment in loud, lazy cries, as \expndtw2 he circled in the clear air. He seldom thought of the past any \expndtw1 more. If the new masters were not truly benignant, they were \expndtw4 indifferent. They left him alone. Kaw, creature of Earth's \expndtw3 dusk, was happy.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The great surface dome where Zar, the Itorloo, had once \expndtw4 kept watch, was already surrounded by crowded growths. \expndtw3 The plants had achieved a great, but an empty, victory. For \expndtw4 Earth was a dying planet. Within the dome an astronomical \expndtw3 telescope gleamed dully, collecting dust. Often Zar had di\-\expndtw4 rected it toward Venus, goal of shattered Itorloo dreams.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tlhyph\tx638\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 But who knew? Out of the void to Ganymede the invaders \expndtw2 had come. Across space to Mars. Riding light to Earth. Per\-\expndtw13 haps when the time came-when Venus was growing \expndtw-5 old\expndtw3 -\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi211\li1258\ri1152\sb1123\sl-475\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\b\fs28 Dark Benediction \expndtw0\b0 WALTER M. MILLER, JR,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri48\sb422\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Always fearful of being set upon during the night, Paul slept uneasily despite his weariness from the long trek southward. \expndtw3 When dawn broke, he rolled out of his blankets and found \expndtw4 himself still stiff with fatigue. He kicked dirt over the re\-\expndtw1 mains of the campfire and breakfasted on a tough forequarter \expndtw2 of cold boiled rabbit which he washed down with a swallow \expndtw4 of earthy-tasting ditchwater. Then he buckled the cartridge belt about his waist, leaped the ditch, and climbed the em\-bankment to the trafficless four-lane highway whose pave\-ment was scattered with blown leaves and unsightly debris \expndtw2 dropped by a long-departed throng of refugees whose only \expndtw4 wish had been to escape from one another. Paul, with char-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2280\sl-202\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 acteristic independence, had decided to go where the crowds had been the thickest-to the cities-on the theory that they \expndtw3 would now be deserted, and therefore noncontagious.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The fog lay heavy over the silent land, and for a moment \expndtw1 he paused groping for cognizance of direction. Then he saw \expndtw3 the stalled car on the opposite shoulder of the road-a late \expndtw4 model convertible, but rusted, flat-tired, with last.year's li\-\expndtw1 cense plates, and most certainly out of fuel. It obviously had \expndtw2 been deserted by its owner during the exodus, and he trusted \expndtw4 in its northward heading as he would have trusted the read\-ing of a compass. He turned right and moved south on the \expndtw2 empty highway. Somewhere just ahead in the gray vapor lay \expndtw1 the outskirts of Houston. He had seen the high skyline before \expndtw5 the setting of yesterday's sun, and knew that his journey \expndtw2 would soon be drawing to \i a \i0 close.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Occasionally he passed \i a \i0 deserted cottage or a burned-out \expndtw3 roadside tavern, but he did not pause to scrounge for food. \expndtw2 The exodus would have stripped such buildings clean. Pick\-\expndtw5 ings should be better in the heart of the metropolitan area, \expndtw4 he thought-where the hysteria had swept humanity away \expndtw0 quickly.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Suddenly Paul froze on the highway, listening to the fog. \expndtw3 Footsteps in the distance-footsteps and a voice singing an \expndtw2 absent-minded ditty to itself. No other sounds penetrated the sepulchral silence which once had growled with the life of a \expndtw4 great city. Anxiety caught him with clammy hands. An old man's voice it was, crackling and tuneless. Paul groped for \expndtw5 his holster and brought out the revolver he had taken from \expndtw3 a deserted police station.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 "Stop where you are, dermie!" he bellowed at the fog. "I'm \expndtw2 armed."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 The footsteps and the singing stopped. Paul strained his \expndtw3 eyes to penetrate the swirling mist-shroud. After a moment, the oldster answered: "Sure foggy, ain't it, sonny? Can't see \expndtw4 ya. Better come a little closer. I ain't no dermie."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Loathing choked in Paul's throat. "The hell you're not. \expndtw1 Nobody else'd be crazy enough to sing. Get off the road! I'm \expndtw2 going south, and if I see you I'll shoot. Now move!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Sure, sonny. I'll move. But Fm no dermie. I was just singing to keep myself company. I'm past caring about the \expndtw2 plague. I'm heading north, where there's people, and if some dermie hears me a'singing... why, I'll tell him t'come jine in. \expndtw4 What's the good o' being healthy if yer alone?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2093\li2328\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 While the old man spoke, Paul heard his sloshing across \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 the ditch and climbing through the brush. Doubt assailed hi\expndtw6 m. Maybe the old crank wasn't a dermie. An ordinary \expndtw2 plague victim would have whimpered and pleaded for sat\-isfaction of his strange craving-the !aying-on of hands, the feel of healthy skin beneath moist gray palms. Nevertheless, \expndtw5 Paul meant to take no chances with the oldster.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Stay back in the brush while I walk past!" he called.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li58\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 '"Okay, sonny. You go right by, I ain't gonna touch you. You aiming to scrounge in Houston?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Paul began to advance. "Yeah, I figure people got out so \expndtw1 fast that they must have left plenty of canned goods and stuff \expndtw0 behind."\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Mmmm, there's a mite here and there," said the cracked voice in a tone that implied understatement. "Course, now, \expndtw5 you ain't the first to figure that way, y'know."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Paul slacked his pace, frowning. "You mean\expndtw22 ...\expndtw3  a lot of \expndtw1 people are coming back?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 "Mmmm, no-not a lot. But you'll bump into people every\-day or two. Ain't my kind o' folks. Rough characters, mostly- \expndtw1 don't take chances, either. They'll shoot first, then look to see if you was a dermie. Don't never come busting out of a door\-\expndtw6 way without taking a peek at the street first. And if two \expndtw2 people come around a corner in opposite directions, some\-\expndtw4 body's gonna die. The few that's there is trigger happy. Just thought I'd warn ya." \expndtw5 " "Thanks."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "D'mention it. Been good t'hear a body's voice again, tho \expndtw3 I can't see ye."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Paul moved on until he was fifty paces past the voice. \expndtw2 Then he stopped and turned. "Okay, you can get back on the \expndtw4 road now. Start walking north. Scuff your feet until you're \expndtw2 out of earshot."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 "Taking no chances, are ye?" said the old man as he waded \expndtw2 the ditch. "All right, sonny." The sound of his footsteps hes\-\expndtw4 itated on the pavement. "A word of advice-your best \expndtw3 scrounging'll be ar&und the warehouses. Most of the stores \expndtw1 are picked clean. Good luck!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri53\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Paul stood listening to the shuffling feet recede northward. \expndtw2 When they became inaudible, he turned to continue his jour\-\expndtw3 ney. The meeting had depressed him, reminded him of the \expndtw4 animal-level to which he and others like him had sunk. The \expndtw1 oldster was obviously healthy; but Paul had been chased by-\expndtw8 three dermies in as many days. And the thought of being\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 trapped by a band of them in the fog left him unnerved. Once \expndtw0 he had seen a pair of the grinning, maddened compulsives \expndtw-2 seize a screaming young child while each of them took turns \expndtw1 caressing the youngster's arms and face with the gray and slippery hands that spelled certain contraction of the dis\-\expndtw-2 ease-if disease it was. The dark pall of neuroderm was un\-\expndtw2 like any illness that Earth had ever seen.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li29\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The victim became the eager ally of the sickness that gripped him. Caught in its demoniac madness, the stricken \expndtw2 human searched hungrily for healthy comrades, then set \expndtw0 upon them with no other purpose than to paw at the clean \expndtw-3 skin and praise the virtues of the blind compulsion that drove \expndtw1 him to do so. One touch, and infection was insured. It was \expndtw-4 as if a third of humanity had become night-prowling maniacs, \expndtw-3 lurking in the shadows to seize the unwary, working in bands \expndtw0 to trap the unarmed wanderer. And two-thirds of humanity found itself fleeing in horror from the mania, seeking the \expndtw-1 frigid northern climates where, according to rumor, the dis\-ease was less infectious. The normal functioning of civili\-\expndtw-2 zation had been dropped like a hot potato within six months \expndtw1 after the first alarm. When the man at the next lathe might be hiding gray discolorations beneath his shirt, industrial \expndtw-2 society was no place for humanity.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi274\ri19\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Rumor connected the onslaught of the plague with an un-predicted swarm of meteorites which had brightened the sky \expndtw-3 one October evening two weeks before the first case was dis\-\expndtw0 covered. The first case was, in fact, a machinist who had \expndtw-1 found one of the celestial cannon balls, handled it, weighed it, estimated its volume by fluid-displacement, then cut into \expndtw-2 it on his lathe because its low density suggested that it might \expndtw-3 be hollow. He claimed to have found a pocket of frozen jelly, \expndtw-2 still rigid from deep space, although the outer shell had been \expndtw-1 heated white-hot by atmospheric friction. He said he let the jelly thaw, then fed it to his cat because it had an unpleasant \expndtw0 fishy odor. Shortly thereafter, the cat disappeared.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li10\ri29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 Other meteorites had been discovered and similarly \expndtw1 treated by- university staffs before there was any reason to \expndtw0 blame them for the plague. Paul, who had been an engi\-\expndtw1 neering student at Texas U at the time of the incident, had heard it said that the missiles were purposefully manufac\-\expndtw-1 tured by parties unknown, that the jelly contained micro\-\expndtw-3 organisms which under the microscope suggested a cross be\-\expndtw1 tween a sperm-cell (because of \i a \i0 similar tail) and a Pucini\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2347\sl-202\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Corpuscle (because of a marked resemblance to nerve tissue \expndtw0 in subcellular detail).\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 When the meteorites were connected with the new and \expndtw-1 mushrooming disease, some people started a panic by theo\-\expndtw1 rizing that the meteor-swarm was a pre-invasion artillery \expndtw-2 attack by some space-horde lurking beyond telescope range, \expndtw-1 and waiting for their biological bombardment to wreck civ\-ilization before they moved in upon Earth. The government had immediately labeled all investigations "top-secret," and \expndtw-3 Paul had heard no news since the initial speculations. Indeed, \expndtw1 the government might have explained the whole thing and \expndtw-1 proclaimed it to the country for all he knew. One thing was \expndtw0 certain: the country had not heard. It no longer possessed \expndtw-2 channels of communication.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Paul thought that if any such invaders were coming, they would have already arrived-months ago. Civilization was \expndtw0 not truly wrecked; it had simply been discarded daring the \expndtw-1 crazed flight of the individual away from the herd. Industry \expndtw-3 lay idle and unmanned, but still intact. Man was fleeing from \expndtw0 Man. Fear had destroyed the integration of his society, and had left him powerless before any hypothetical invaders. Earth was ripe for plucking, but it remained unplucked and withering. Paul, therefore, discarded the invasion hypothe\-\expndtw-1 sis, and searched for nothing new to replace it. He accepted \expndtw-4 the fact of his own existence in the midst of chaos, and sought \expndtw1 to protect that existence as best he couid. It proved to be a \expndtw-1 full-time job, with no spare time for theorizing.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Life was a rabbit scurrying over a hill. Life was a warm \expndtw-2 blanket, and a secluded sleeping place. Life was ditchwater, \expndtw0 and an unbloated can of corned beef, and a suit of clothing \expndtw-2 looted from a deserted cottage. Life, above all\i  \i0 else, was an \expndtw1 avoidance of other human beings. For no dermie had the \expndtw0 grace to cry "unclean!" to the unsuspecting. If the dermie's \expndtw-1 discolorations were still in the concealable stage, then con\-\expndtw0 cealed they would be, while the lost creature deliberately \expndtw-2 sought to infect his wife, his children, his friends-whoever would not protest an idle touch of the hand. When the gray-\expndtw2 ness touched the face the backs of the hands, the creature \expndtw1 became a feverish night wanderer, subject to strange hal\-\expndtw0 lucinations and delusions and desires.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The fog began to part toward midmorning as Paul drove \expndtw0 deeper into the outskirts of Houston. The highway, was be\-coming a commercial subcenter, lined with businesses and \expndtw-3 small shops. The sidewalks were showered with broken glass\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 from windows kicked in by looters. Paul kept to the center \expndtw3 of the deserted street, listening and watching cautiously for \expndtw1 signs of life. The distant barking of a dog was the only sound in the once-growing metropolis. A flight of sparrows winged \expndtw3 down the street, then darted in through a broken window to \expndtw4 an inside nesting place.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 He searched \i a \i0 small grocery store, looking for a snack, \expndtw5 but the shelves were bare. The thoroughfare had served as \expndtw3 a main avenue of escape, and the fugitives had looted it \expndtw2 thoroughly to obtain provisions. He turned onto a side street, \expndtw5 then after several blocks turned again to parallel the high\-\expndtw1 way, moving through an old residential section. Many houses \expndtw2 had been left open, but few had been looted. He entered one \expndtw-1 old frame mansion and found a can of tomatoes in the kitchen. \expndtw2 He opened it and sipped the tender delicacy from the con\-tainer, while curiosity sent him prowling through the rooms.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 He wandered up the first flight of stairs, then halted with \expndtw-2 one foot on the landing. A body lay sprawled across the second \expndtw0 flight-the body of a young man, dead quite a while. A well-\expndtw4 rusted pistol had fallen from his hand. Paul dropped the \expndtw2 tomatoes and bolted for the street. Suicide was a common \expndtw5 recourse, when a man learned that he had been touched.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 After two blocks, Paul stopped running. He sat panting \expndtw3 on a fire hydrant and chided himself for being overly cau\-\expndtw1 tious. The man had been dead for months; and infection was \expndtw3 achieved only through contact. Nevertheless, his scalp wag \expndtw4 still tingling. When he had rested briefly, he continued his \expndtw3 plodding course toward the heart of the city. Toward noon, \expndtw5 he saw another human being.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri10\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 The man was standing on the loading dock of a warehouse, \expndtw6 apparently enjoying the sunlight that came with the dis\-\expndtw1 solving of the fog. He was slowly and solemnly spooning the \expndtw3 contents of a can into a red-lipped mouth while his beard bobbled with appreciative chewing. Suddenly he saw Paul who had stopped in the center of the street with his hand on \expndtw2 the butt of his pistol. The man backed away, tossed the can \expndtw5 aside, and sprinted the length of the platform. He bounded \expndtw2 off the end, snatched a bicycle away from the wall, and ped\-\expndtw8 aled quickly out of sight while he bleated shrill blasts on \expndtw3 a police whistle clenched between his teeth.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Paul trotted to the corner, but the man had made another \expndtw3 turn. His whistle continued bleating. A signal? A dermie summons to a touching orgy? Paul stood still while he tried\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-202\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 to overcome an urge to break into panicked flight. After a minute, the clamor ceased; but the silence was ominous.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 If a party of cyclists moved in, he could not escape on foot. \expndtw0 He darted toward the nearest warehouse, seeking a place to \expndtw-5 hide. Inside, he climbed a stack of boxes to a horizontal girder, \expndtw1 kicked the stack to topple it, and stretched out belly-down \expndtw-3 on the steel I-beam to command a clear shot at the entrances. \expndtw-4 He lay for an hour, waiting quietly for searchers. None came. \expndtw1 At last he slid down a vertical support and returned to the \expndtw0 loading platform. The street was empty and silent. With \expndtw-2 weapon ready, he continued his journey. He passed the next \expndtw0 intersection without mishap.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Halfway up the block, a calm voice drawled a command \expndtw0 from behind him: "Drop the gun, dermie. Get your hands \expndtw-1 behind your head."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li19\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He halted, motionless. No plague victim would hurl the dermie-charge at another. He dropped the pistol and turned slowly. Three men with drawn revolvers were clambering \expndtw-3 from the back of a stalled truck. They were all bearded, wore \expndtw0 blue jeans, blue neckerchiefs, and green woolen shirts. He \expndtw-1 suddenly recalled that the man on the loading platform had \expndtw3 been similarly dressed. A uniform? \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Turn around again!" barked the speaker.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Paul turned, realizing that the men were probably some \expndtw-2 sort of self-appointed quarantine patrol. Tow ropes suddenly skidded out from behind and came to a stop near his feet on \expndtw0 the pavement-a pair of lariat loops.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "One foot in each loop, dermie!" the speaker snapped.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 When Paul obeyed, the ropes were jerked taut about his \expndtw1 ankles, and two of the men trotted out to the sides, stood \expndtw-2 thirty feet apart, and pulled his legs out into a wide straddle. \expndtw-1 He quickly saw that any movement would cost him his bal\-\expndtw-7 ance.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Strip to the skin."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "I'm no dermie," Paul protested as he unbuttoned his shirt.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "We'll see for ourselves, Joe," grunted the leader as he \expndtw-5 moved around to the front. "Get the top off first. If your chest's o\expndtw-4 kay, we'll let your feet go."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\fs21 When Paul had undressed, the leader walked around him\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\fs21 slowly, making him spread his fingers and display the soles\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 of his feet. He stood shivering and angry in the chilly winter\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 air while the men satisfied themselves that he wore no gray\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri3240\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 patches of neuroderm.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2088\li2318\ri53\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "You're all right, I guess," the speaker admitted; then as \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Paul stooped to recover his clothing, the man growled, "Not \expndtw4 those! Jim, get him a probie outfit."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Paul caught a bundle of clean clothing, tossed to him from \expndtw4 the back of the truck. There were jeans, a woolen shirt, and a kerchief, but the shirt and kerchief were red. He shot an \expndtw5 inquiring glance at the leader, while he climbed into the \expndtw0 welcome change.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "All newcomers are on\scaps  \scaps0 two weeks probation," the man \expndtw2 explained. "If you decide to stay in Houston, you'll get an\-\expndtw4 other exam next time the uniform code changes. Then you \expndtw2 can join our outfit, if you don't show up with the plague. In \expndtw3 fact, you'll have to join if you stay."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "What is the outfit?" Paul asked suspiciously.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 "It just started. Schoolteacher name of Georgelle organized \expndtw6 it. We aim to keep dermies out. There's about six hundred \expndtw3 of us now. We guard the downtown area, but soon as there's enough of us we'll move out to take in more territory. Set up \expndtw2 road blocks and all that. You're welcome, soon as we're sure \expndtw5 you're clean.., and can take orders."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033 "Whose orders?"\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 "Georgelle's. We got no room for goof-offs, and no time for \expndtw2 argument. Anybody don't like the setup, he's welcome to get \expndtw3 out, Jim here'll give you a leaflet on the. rules. Better read \expndtw2 it before you go anywhere. If you don't, you might make a \expndtw4 wrong move. Make a wrong move, and you catch a bullet."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The man called Jim interrupted, "Reckon you better call \expndtw4 off the other patrols, Digger?" he said respectfully to the \expndtw1 leader.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Digger nodded curtly and turned to blow three short blasts \expndtw4 and a long with his whistle. An answering short-long-short \expndtw2 came from several blocks away. Other posts followed suit. \expndtw1 Paul realized that he had been surrounded by a ring of similar \expndtw3 ambushes.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 "Jim, take him to the nearest water barrel, and see that \expndtw0 he shaves," Digger ordered, then: "What's your name, probie? \expndtw2 Also your job, if you had one."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Paul Harris Oberlin. I was a mechanical engineering stu\-\expndtw6 dent when the plague struck. Part-time garage mechanic \expndtw2 while I was in school."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Digger nodded and jotted down the information on a \expndtw4 scratchpad. "Good, I'll turn your name in to the registrar. Georgelle says to watch for college men. You might get a \expndtw3 good assignment, later. Report to the Esperson Building on \expndtw2 the seventeenth. That's inspection day. If you don't show up,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 we'll come looking for you. All loose probies'll get shot. Now \expndtw0 Jim here's gonna see to it that you shave. Don't shave again \expndtw-2 until your two-weeker. That way, we can estimate how long you been in town-by looking at your beard. We got other ways that you don't need to know about. Georgette's got a \expndtw1 system worked out for everything, so don't try any tricks,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Tell me, what do you do with dermies?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Digger grinned at his men. "You'll find out, probie."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li53\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Paul was led to a rain barrel, given a basin, razor, and saapv He-scraped-his-face clean\i  \i0 while-Jim sat at a safe dis-\expndtw-4 tance, munching a quid of tobacco and watching the operation \expndtw0 with tired boredom. The other men had gone,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "May I have my pistol back?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Uh-uh! Read the rules. No weapons for probies,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Suppose I bump into a dermie?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Find yourself a whistle and toot a bunch of short blasts. Then run like hell. We'll take care of the dermies. Read the \expndtw0 rules."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Can I scrounge wherever 1 want to?''\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Probies have their own assigned areas. There's a map in \expndtw1 the rules."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Who wrote the rules, anyhow?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Jeezis!" the guard grunted disgustedly. "Read 'em\i  \i0 and \expndtw-2 find out."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 When Paul finished shaving, Jim stood up, stretched, then \expndtw-1 bounded off the platform and picked up his bicycle.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Where do I go from here?" Paul called.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The man gave him a contemptuous snort, mounted the bike, and pedaled leisurely away. Paul gathered that he was \expndtw2 to read the rules. He sat down beside the rain barrel and \expndtw0 began studying the mimeographed leaflet.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 Everything was cut and dried. As a probie, he was confined \expndtw0 to an area six blocks square near the heart of the city. Once \expndtw-3 he entered it, a blue mark would be stamped on his forehead. \expndtw-2 At the two-week inspection, the indelible brand would be removed with a special solution. If a branded probie were caught outside his area, he would be forcibly escorted from \expndtw1 the city. He was warned against attempting to impersonate \expndtw0 permanent personnel, because a system of codes and pass\-\expndtw-1 words would ensnare him. One full page of the leaflet was \expndtw-2 devoted to propaganda. Houston was to become a "Bulwark \expndtw1 of health in a stricken world, and the leader of a glorious \expndtw-3 recovery." The paper was signed by Dr. Georgelle, who had \expndtw0 given himself the title of Director.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 The pamphlet left Paul with a vague uneasiness. The uni\-\expndtw3 forms-they reminded him of neighborhood boys' gangs in \expndtw2 the slums, wearing special sweaters and uttering secret pass\-\expndtw4 words, whipping intruders and amputating the tails of stray \expndtw3 cats in darkened garages. And, in another way, it made him think of frustrated little people, gathering at night in brown \expndtw4 shirts around a bonfire to sing the \i Horst Wessel Lied \i0 and listen to grandiose oratory about glorious destinies. \i Their \expndtw5\i0 stray eats had been an unfavored race.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Of course, the dermies were not merely harmless alley \expndtw2 prowlers. They were a real menace. And maybe Georgelle's \expndtw1 methods were the-orily ones effective.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri19\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 While Paul sat with the pamphlet on the platform, he had \expndtw1 been gazing absently at the stalled truck from which the men \expndtw2 had emerged. Suddenly it broke upon his consciousness that \expndtw4 it was a diesel. He bounded off the platform, and went to check its fuel tank, which had been left uncapped.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 He knew that it was useless to search for gasoline, but diesel fuel was another matter. The exodus had drained all \expndtw2 existing supplies of high octane fuel for the escaping motor\-\expndtw4 cade, but the evacuation had been too hasty and too fear-\expndtw1 crazed to worry with out-of-the-ordinary methods. He sniffed \expndtw3 the tank. It smelled faintly of gasoline. Some unknowing \expndtw2 fugitive had evidently filled it with ordinary fuel, which had \expndtw3 later evaporated. But if the cylinders had not been damaged \expndtw1 by the trial, the truck might be useful. He checked the engine \expndtw4 briefly, and decided that it had not been tried at all. The \expndtw5 starting battery had been removed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 He walked across the street and looked back at the ware-house. It bore the sign of a trucking firm. He walked around \expndtw3 the block, eyeing the streets cautiously for other patrolmen. \expndtw-1 There was a fueling platform on the opposite side of the block. \expndtw1 A fresh splash of oil on the concrete told him that Georgelle's crew was using the fuel for some purpose-possibly for heat\-\expndtw4 ing or cooking. He entered the building and found a repair \expndtw5 shop, with several dismantled engines lying about. There \expndtw1 was a rack of batteries in the corner, but a screwdriver placed \expndtw5 across the terminals brought only a weak spark.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 The chargers, of course, drew power from the city's electric \expndtw3 service, which was dead. After giving the problem some thought, Paul connected five of the batteries in series, then \expndtw1 placed a sixth across the total voltage, so that it would collect the charge that the others lost. Then he went to carry buckets\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi91\li144\ri43\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 of fuel from the pumps to the truck. When the tank was filled; h\expndtw4 e hoisted each end of the truck with a roll-under jack and inflated the tires with a harohpump. It was a long and la-bori\expndtw-6 ous job.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li130\ri43\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Twilight was gathering by the time he was ready to try it.\expndtw3  Several times during the afternoon, he had been forced to hi\expndtw2 de from cyclists who wandered past, lest they send him on t\expndtw3 o the probie area and use the truck for their own purposes. \expndtw2 Evidently they had long since decided that automotive trans-po\expndtw4 rtation was a thing of the past.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li125\ri43\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 A series of short whistle-blasts came to his ears just as he w\expndtw1 as climbing into the cab. The signals were several blocks \expndtw4 away, but some of the answering bleats were closer. Evi\-\expndtw6 dently another newcomer, he thought. Most new arrivals f\expndtw5 rom the north would pass through the same area on their w\expndtw4 ay downtown. He entered the cab, closed the door softly, \expndtw2 and ducked low behind the dashboard as three cyclists raced \expndtw4 across the intersection just ahead.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi221\ri48\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Paul settled down to wait for the all-clear. It came after \expndtw6 about ten minutes. Apparently the newcomer had tried to \expndtw4 run instead of hiding. When the cyclists returned, they were  moving leisurely, and laughing among themselves. After \expndtw3 they\b  \b0 had passed the intersection, Paul stole quietly out of the \expndtw2 cab and moved along the wall to the corner, to assure himself that all the patrolmen had gone. But the sound of shrill plead\-\expndtw4 ing came to his ears.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li96\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 At the end of the building, he clung close to the wall and \expndtw4 risked a glance" around the corner, A block away, the nude-fi\expndtw5 gure of a girl was struggling between taut ropes held by \expndtw3 green-shirted guards. She was a\i  \i0 pretty girl, with a tousled \expndtw1 mop of chestnut hair and clean white limbs-clean except for h\expndtw4 er forearms, which appeared dipped in dark stain. Then he \expndtw3 jaw the dark irregular splotch across her flank, like a splash of ink not quite washed clean. She was a\i  \i0 dermie.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li77\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Paul ducked close to the ground so that his face was hidden \expndtw3 by a clump of grass \i at \i0 the corner. A man-the leader of the-\expndtw5 group-had left the girl, and was advancing up the street toward Paul, who prepared to roll under the building out of \expndtw3 sight. But in the middle of the block, the man stopped. He \expndtw4 lifted a manhole cover in the pavement, then went back for \expndtw5 the girl's clothing, which he dragged at the end of a fishing \expndtw2 pole with a wire hook at its tip. He dropped the clothing, one piece at a time, into the manhole. A cloud of white dust arose\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2410\sl-202\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 from it, and the man stepped back to avoid the dust. Quick\-\expndtw-1 lime, Paul guessed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Then the leader cupped his hands to his mouth and called back to the others. "Okay, drag her on up here!" He drew his \expndtw0 revolver and waited while they tugged the struggling girl toward the manhole.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Paul felt suddenly ill. He had seen dermies shot in self-\expndtw-1 defense by fugitives from their deathly gray hands, but here was cold and efficient elimination. Here was Dachau and Buchenwald and the nameless camps of Siberia. He turned \expndtw0 and bolted for the truck.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 The sound of its engine starting brought a halt to the \expndtw0 disposal of the pest-girl. The leader appeared at the inter\-section and stared uncertainly at the truck, as Paul nosed it \expndtw-3 away from the building. He fidgeted with his revolver doubt\-\expndtw0 fully, and called something over his shoulder to the others. Then he began walking out into the street and signaling for the truck to stop. Paul let it crawl slowly ahead, and leaned out the window to eye the man questioningly.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "How the hell you get that started?" the leader called \expndtw0 excitedly. He was still holding the pistol, but it dangled al\-most unnoticed in his hand. Paul suddenly fed fuel to the \expndtw-2 diesel and swerved sharply toward the surprised guardsman.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The leader yelped and dived for safety, but the fender \expndtw-4 caught his hips, spun him off balance, and smashed him down \expndtw2 against the pavement. As the truck thundered around the \expndtw1 corner toward the girl and her captors, he glanced in the \expndtw0 mirror to see the hurt man weakly trying to crawl out of the street. Paul was certain that he was not mortally wounded.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 As the truck lumbered on, the girl threw herself prone \expndtw-3 before it, since the ropes prevented any escape. Paul swerved \expndtw-1 erratically, sending the girl's captors scurrying for the alley. Then he aimed the wheels to straddle her body. She glanced \expndtw0 up, screamed, then hugged the pavement as the behemoth \expndtw1 thundered overhead. A bullet plowed a furrow across the hood. Paul ducked low in the seat and jammed the brake \expndtw0 pedal down, as soon as he thought she was clear.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 There were several shots, but apparently they were shoot\-\expndtw0 ing at the girl. Paul counted three seconds, then gunned the \expndtw-1 engine again. If she hadn't climbed aboard, it was just tough \expndtw0 luck, he thought grimly. He shouldn't have tried to save her \expndtw-1 anyway. But continued shooting told him that she had man\-\expndtw-2 aged to get inside. The trailer was heaped with clothing, and \expndtw0 he trusted the mound of material to halt the barrage of bul-\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 lets. He heard the explosion of a blowout as he swung around \expndtw3 the next corner, and the trailer lurched dangerously. It \expndtw-3 swayed from side to side as he gathered speed down the wide \expndtw-2 and trafficless avenue. But the truck had double wheels, and \expndtw-1 soon the dangerous lurching ceased.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He roared on through the metropolitan area, staying on \expndtw-3 the same street and gathering speed. An occasional scrounger \expndtw-1 or cyclist stopped to stare, but they seemed too surprised to \expndtw0 act. And they could not have known what had transpired a \expndtw-4 few blocks away.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Paul could not stop to see if he had a passenger, or if she \expndtw2 was still alive. She was more dangerous than the gunmen. \expndtw0 Any gratitude she might feel toward her rescuer would be \expndtw-2 quickly buried beneath her craving to spread the disease. He \expndtw-1 wished fervently that he had let the patrolmen kill her. Now he was faced with the problem of getting rid of her. He no\-ticed, however, that mirrors were mounted on both sides of \expndtw0 the cab. If he stopped the truck, and if she climbed out, he \expndtw-1 could see, and move away again before she had a chance to approach him. But he decided to wait until they were out of \expndtw0 the city.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Soon he saw a highway marker, then a sign that said \expndtw-3 "Galveston-58 miles." He bore ahead, thinking that perhaps \expndtw-1 the island-city would provide good scrounging, without the regimentation of Doctor Georgelle's efficient system with its \expndtw-2 plan for "glorious recovery."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Twenty miles beyond the city limits, he stopped the truck, let the engine idle, and waited for his passenger to climb out. \expndtw1 He locked the doors and laid a jack-handle across the seat \expndtw-1 as an added precaution. Nothing happened. He rolled down \expndtw1 the window and shouted toward the rear.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "All passengers off the bus! Last stop! Everybody out!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Still the girl did not appear. Then he heard something- a light tap from the trailer, and a murmur... or a moan. She was there all right. He called again, but she made no re\-\expndtw0 sponse. It was nearly dark outside.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li5\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 At last he seized the jack-handle, opened the door, and \expndtw-5 stepped out of the cab. Wary of a trick, he skirted wide around \expndtw1 the trailer and approached it from the rear. One door was \expndtw-1 closed, while the other swung free. He stopped a few yards \expndtw0 away and peered inside. At first he saw nothing.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Get out, but keep away or I'll kill you,"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Then he saw her move. She was sitting on the floor, lean\-\expndtw3 ing back against a heap of clothing, a dozen feet from the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 entrance. He stepped forward cautiously and flung open the \expndtw5 other door. She turned her head to look at him peculiarly, \expndtw3 but said nothing. He could see that she had donned some of the clothing, but one trouser-leg was rolled up, and she had \expndtw6 tied a rag tightly about her ankle.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Are you hurt?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 She nodded. "Bullet..." She rolled her head dizzily and \expndtw-1 moaned.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Paul went back to the cab to search for a first aid kit. He found one, together with a flashlight and spare batteries in the glove compartment. He made certain that the ceils were not corroded and that the light would burn feebly. Then he \expndtw2 returned to the trailer, chiding himself for a prize fool. A \expndtw4 sensible human would haul the dermie "out at the end of a \expndtw5 towing chain and leave her sitting by the side of the road.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "If you try to touch me, I'll brain you!" he warned, as he \expndtw5 clambered into the trailer.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri34\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 She looked up again "Would you feel . . . like enjoying \expndtw0 anything \expndtw48 ...\expndtw0  if you were bleeding like this?" she muttered \expndtw3 weakly. The flashlight beam caught the glitter of pam in her \expndtw5 eyes, and accentuated the pallor of her small face. She was \expndtw4 a pretty girl-scarcely older than twenty-but Paul was in \expndtw3 no mood to appreciate pretty women, especially dermies.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "So that's how you think of it, eh? Enjoying yourself!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 She said nothing. She dropped her forehead against her \expndtw3 knee and rolled it slowly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Where are you hit? Just the foot?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw8 "Ankle..."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "All right, take the rag off. Let's see."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "The wound's in back."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 "All right, lie down on your stomach, and keep your hands \expndtw4 under your head."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 She stretched out weakly, and he shone the light over her \expndtw5 leg, to make certain its skin was clear of neuroderm. Then \expndtw0 he looked at the ankle, and said nothing for a time. The bullet \expndtw4 had missed the joint, but had neatly severed the Achilles' tendon just above the heel.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 "You're a plucky kid," he grunted, wondering how she had \expndtw3 endured the self-torture of getting the shoe off and clothing \expndtw1 herself.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "It was cold back here-without clothes," she muttered.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 Paul opened the first aid packet and found an envelope \expndtw1 of sulfa powder. Without touching her, he emptied it into the wound, which was beginning to bleed again. There was noth-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 ing else he could do. The tendon had pulled apart and would \expndtw5 require surgical stitching to bring it together until it could \expndtw4 heal. Such attention was out of the question.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li48\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 She broke the silence. "I... I'm going to be crippled, aren't \expndtw-5 I?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri5\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 "Oh-, not crippled," he heard himself telling her. "If we can \expndtw3 get you to a doctor, 'anyway. Tendons can be sutured with \expndtw4 wire. He'll probably put your foot in a cast, and you might \expndtw5 get a stiff ankle from it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li38\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 She lay breathing quietly, denying his hopeful words by her silence.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Here!" he said. "Here's a gauze pad and some tape. Can \expndtw4 you manage it yourself?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li34\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 She started to sit up. He placed the first aid pack beside her, and backed to the door. She fumbled in the kit, and whimpered while she taped the pad in place.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "There's a tourniquet in there, too. Use it if the bleeding's \expndtw0 worse."\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 She looked up to watch his silhouette against the dark\-\expndtw2 ening evening sky. "Thanks... thanks a lot, mister. I'm grate\-\expndtw1 ful. I promise not to touch you. Not if you don't want me to."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li5\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Shivering, he moved back to the cab. Why did they always \expndtw7 get that insane idea that they were doing their victims a \expndtw1 favor by giving them the neural plague? \i Not if you don't want \expndtw5 me to. \i0 He shuddered as he drove away. She felt that way \expndtw4 now, while the pain robbed her of the craving, but later- \expndtw1 unless he got rid of her quickly-she would come to feel that she owed it to him-as a favor. The disease perpetuated itself \expndtw3 by arousing such strange delusions in its bearer. The micro\-organisms' methods of survival were indeed highly special\-\expndtw2 ized. Paul felt certain that such animalcules had not evolved \expndtw5 on Earth.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 A light gleamed here and there along the Alvin-Galveston highway-oil lamps, shining from lonely cottages whose oc\-\expndtw0 cupants had not felt the pressing urgency of the crowded city. \expndtw3 But he had no doubt that to approach one of the farmhouses \expndtw2 would bring a rifle bullet as a welcome. Where could he find \expndtw0 help for the girl? No one would touch her but another dermie. \expndtw4 Perhaps he could unhitch the trailer and leave her in down\-town Galveston, with a sign hung on the back-"Wounded \expndtw-1 dermie inside." The plague victims would care for their own- \expndtw3 if they found her.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 He chided himself again for worrying about her. Saving \expndtw5 her life didn't make him responsible for her.. .did it? After\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 all, if she lived, and the leg. healed, she would only prowl in \expndtw4 search of healthy victims again. She would never be rid of the disease, nor would she ever die of it-so far as anyone \expndtw1 knew. The death rate was high among dermies, but the cause \expndtw5 was usually a bullet.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw7 Paul passed a fork in the highway and knew that the \expndtw3 bridge was just ahead. Beyond the channel lay Galveston \expndtw4 Island, once brightly lit and laughing in its role as seaside \expndtw1 resort-now immersed in darkness. The wind whipped at the \expndtw4 truck from the southwest as the road led up onto the wide \expndtw1 causeway. A faint glow in the east spoke of a moon about to \expndtw2 rise. He saw the wide structure of the drawbridge just ahead.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Suddenly he clutched at the wheel, smashed furiously \expndtw1 down on the brake, and tugged the emergency back. The tires \expndtw3 howled ahead on the smooth concrete, and the force threw him forward over the wheel. Dusty water swirled far below \expndtw2 where the upward folding gates of the drawbridge had once \expndtw4 been. He skidded to a stop ten feet from the end. When he \expndtw2 climbed out, the girl was calling weakly from the trailer, but \expndtw5 he walked to the edge and looked over. Someone had done \expndtw3 a job with dynamite.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Why, he wondered. To keep islanders on the island, or to \expndtw2 keep mainlanders off? Had another Doctor Georgelle started \expndtw4 his own small nation in Galveston? It seemed more likely that the lower island dwellers had done the demolition.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 He looked back at the truck. An experienced truckster \expndtw5 might be able to swing it around all right, but Paul was \expndtw1 doubtful. Nevertheless, he climbed back in the cab, and tried \expndtw5 it. Half an hour later he was hopelessly jammed, with the \expndtw3 trailer twisted aside and the cab wedged near the sheer drop \expndtw5 to the water. He gave it up and went back to inspect his \expndtw0 infected cargo.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 She was asleep, but moaning faintly. He prodded her \expndtw1 awake with the jack-handle. "Can you crawl, kid? If you can, \expndtw2 come back to the door."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 She nodded, and began dragging herself toward the flash\-\expndtw3 light. She clenched her lip between her teeth to keep from \expndtw4 whimpering, but her breath came as a voiced murmur . . . \expndtw5\i nnnng . . . nnnng . . .\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 She sagged weakly when she reached the entrance, and \expndtw4 for a moment he thought she had fainted. Then she looked up. "What next, skipper?" she panted.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 "I\expndtw14 ...\expndtw0  I don't know. Can you let yourself down to the pave\-\expndtw3 ment?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li62\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 She glanced over the edge and shook her head. "With a rope, maybe. There's one back there someplace. If you're \expndtw0 scared of me, I'll try to crawl and get it."\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Hands to yourself?" he asked suspiciously; then he \expndtw3 thanked the darkness for hiding the heat of shame that \expndtw-2 crawled to his face.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "I won't..."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li53\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 He scrambled into the trailer quickly and brought back \expndtw-3 the rope. "I'll climb up on top and let it down in front of you. \expndtw-1 Grab hold and let yourself down."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri10\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3 A few minutes later she was sitting on the concrete cause\-\expndtw0 way looking at the wrecked draw. "Oh!" she muttered as he \expndtw1 scrambled down from atop the trailer. "I thought you just \expndtw0 wanted to dump me here. We're stuck, huh?"\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4 "Yeah! We might swim it, but doubt if you could make it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2 "I'd try..." She paused, cocking her head slightly. "There's \expndtw0 a boat moored under the bridge. Right over there."\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033 "What makes you think so?"\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4 "Water lapping against wood. Listen." Then she shook her \expndtw-1 head. "I forgot. You're not hyper."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2 "I'm not what?" Paul listened. The water sounds seemed \expndtw-7 homogeneous.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li29\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6 "Hyperacute. Sharp senses. You know, it's one of the symp\-\expndtw-5 toms."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 He nodded, remembering vaguely that he'd heard some\-thing to that effect-but he'd chalked it up as hallucinatory \expndtw0 phenomenon. He walked to the rail and shone his light to\-ward the water. The boat was there-tugging its. rope taut from the mooring as the tide swirled about it. The bottom \expndtw-3 was still fairly dry, indicating that a recent rower had crossed \expndtw1 from the island to the mainland.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2 "Think you can hold onto the rope if I let you down?" he \expndtw-6 called.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 She gave him a quick glance, then picked up the end she \expndtw-2 had previously touched and tied a loop about her waist. She \expndtw0 began crawling toward the rail. Paul fought down a crazy \expndtw-1 urge to pick her up and carry her; plague be damned. But hi \expndtw-3 had already left himself dangerously open to contagion. Still, \expndtw-2 he felt the drumming charges of conscience... \i depart from \expndtw3 me, ye accursed, for I was sick and you visited me not...\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 He turned quickly away, and began knotting the end of the rope about the rail. He reminded himself that any sane \expndtw-2 person would desert her at once, and swim on to safety. Yet,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\ri10\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 he could not. In the oversized clothing she looked like a child, \expndtw-1 hurt and helpless, Paul knew the demanding arrogance that \expndtw-4 could possess the wounded-\i help me, you've got to help me, \expndtw-1 you damn merciless bastard!...No, don't touch me there, \expndtw0 damn you! \i0 Too many times, he had heard the sick curse the \expndtw1 physician, and the injured curse the rescuer. Blind aggres\-sion, trying to strike back at pain.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri14\sb10\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 But the girl made no complaint except the involuntary \expndtw3 hurt sounds. She asked nothing, and accepted his aid with a wide-eyed gratitude that left him weak. He thought that \expndtw-4 it would be easier to leave her if she would only beg, or plead, \expndtw-2 or demand.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\sb5\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Can you start me swinging a little?" she called as he lowered her toward the water.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri24\sb14\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Paul's eyes probed the darkness below, trying to sort the \expndtw-1 shadows, to make certain which was the boat. He used both hands to feed out the rope, and the light laid on the rail only \expndtw-2 seemed to blind him. She began swinging herself pendulum-\expndtw-1 wise somewhere beneath him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sb10\sl-192\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "When I say "ready," let me go!" she shrilled.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "You're not going to drop!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li29\ri34\sb5\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Have to! Boat's out further. Got to swing for it. I can't \expndtw-2 swim, really."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sb5\sl-192\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "But you'll hurt your-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sb10\sl-192\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\fs21 "Ready!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri48\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Paul still clung to the rope. "I'll let you down into the \expndtw-2 water and you can hang onto the rope. I'll dive, and then pull \expndtw0 you into the boat."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri43\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Uh-uh! You'd have to touch me. You don't want that, do \expndtw0 you? Just a second now... one more swing... ready!"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri53\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He let the rope go. With a clatter and a thud, she hit the \expndtw-4 boat. Three sharp cries of pain clawed at him. Then-muffled \expndtw-5 sobbing.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-192\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Are you all right?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-192\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Sobs. She seemed not to hear him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri29\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Jeezis!" He sprinted for the brink of the drawbridge and \expndtw2 dived out over the deep channel. How far... down... down. \expndtw1 ... Icy water stung his body with sharp whips, then opened \expndtw0 to embrace him. He fought to the surface and swam toward \expndtw-1 the dark shadow of the boat. The sobbing had subsided. He \expndtw-3 grasped the prow and hauled himself dripping from the chan\-\expndtw-1 nel. She was lying curled in the bottom of the boat.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-192\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\fs21 "Kid...you all right, kid?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li5\ri67\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Sorry... I'm such a baby," she gasped, and dragged her\-\expndtw1 self back to the stern.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sb10\sl-192\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\ri82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Paul found \i a \i0 paddle, but no oars. He cast off and began \expndtw1 digging water toward the other side, but the tide tugged them relentlessly away from the bridge. He gave it up and paddled \expndtw4 toward the distant shore. "You know anything about Gal-\expndtw2 veston?" he called-mostly to reassure himself that she was \expndtw5 not approaching him in the darkness with the death-gray \expndtw0 hands,\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li53\ri91\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 ''I used to come here for the summer, I know a little about \expndtw16 it"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri86\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Paul urged her to talk while he plowed toward the island. \expndtw1 Her name was Willie, and she insisted that it was for Willow, \expndtw2 not for Wilhelmina. She came from Dallas, and claimed she \expndtw5 was a salesman's daughter who was done in by a traveling farmer. The farmer, she explained, was just a wandering \expndtw2 dermie who had caught her napping by the roadside. He had: stroked her arms until she awoke, then had run away, howl\-ing with glee.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li38\ri101\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw10 ""That was three weeks ago," said, "If I'd had a gun, \expndtw3 I'd have dropped him. Of course, I know better now,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw11 Paul shuddered and paddled on. "Why did you head \expndtw1 south?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "I was coming here,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Here? To Galveston?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri110\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Uh-huh. I heard someone say that a lot of nuns were \expndtw5 coming to the island. I thought maybe they'd take me in,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri106\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 The moon was high over the lightless city, and the tide \expndtw2 had swept the small boat far east from the bridge by the time \expndtw5 Paul's paddle dug into the mud beneath the shallow water. \expndtw6 He bounded out and dragged the boat through thin marsh \expndtw3 grass onto the shore. Fifty yards away, a ramshackle fishing \expndtw4 cottage lay sleeping in the moonlight.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri110\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 "Stay here, Willie," he grunted. "I'll find a couple of boards \expndtw3 or something for crutches."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri120\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 He rummaged about through a shed behind the cottage \expndtw4 and brought back a wheelbarrow. Moaning and laughing at \expndtw3 once, she struggled into it, and he wheeled her to the house, \expndtw4 humming a verse \i of Rickshaw Boy.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri106\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "You're a funny guy, Paul, I'm sorry..." She jiggled her \expndtw3 tousled head in the moonlight, as if she disapproved of her \expndtw8 own words.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri125\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Paul tried the cottage door, kicked it open, then walked the wheelbarrow up three steps and into a musty room. He \expndtw3 struck a match, found an oil lamp with a little kerosene, and \expndtw5 tit it. Willie caught her breath.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li58\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21     He looked around. "Company," he grunted.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The company sat in a fragile rocker with a shawl about \expndtw2 her shoulders and a shotgun between her knees. She had \expndtw-5 been dead at least a month. The charge of buckshot had sieved \expndtw0 the ceiling and spattered it with bits of gray hair and brown \expndtw-10 blood.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Stay here," he told the girl tonelessly. "I'll try to get a \expndtw-6 dermie somewhere-one who knows how to sew a tendon. Got \expndtw-2 any ideas?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 She was staring with a sick face at the old woman. "Here? \expndtw-7 With-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "She won't bother you," he said as he gently disentangled \expndtw-1 the gun from the corpse. He moved to a cupboard and found \expndtw-2 a box of shells behind an orange teapot. "I may not be back, but I'll send somebody."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 She buried her face in her plague-stained hands, and he \expndtw-1 stood for a moment watching her shoulders shiver. "Don't \expndtw-2 worry... I will send somebody." He stepped to the porcelain \expndtw-1 sink and pocketed a wafer-thin sliver of dry soap.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "What's that for?" she muttered, looking up again.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He thought of a lie, then checked it. "To wash you off of \expndtw0 me," he said truthfully. "I might have got too close. Soap \expndtw-1 won't do much good, but I'll feel better," He looked at the \expndtw-3 corpse coolly. "Didn't do her much good. Buckshot's the best \expndtw2 antiseptic all right."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 Willie moaned as he went out the door. He heard her crying \expndtw2 as he walked down to the waterfront. She was still crying \expndtw-3 when he waded back to shore, after a thorough scrubbing. He was sorry he'd spoken cruelly, but it was such a damned relief \expndtw4 to get rid of her...\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 With the shotgun cradled on his arm, he began patting \expndtw0 distance between himself and the sobbing. But the sound \expndtw-2 worried his ears, even after he realized that he was no longer \expndtw1 hearing her.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He strode a short distance inland past scattered fishing \expndtw0 shanties, then took the highway toward the city whose out\-skirts he was entering. It would be at least an hour's trek to the end of the island where he would be most likely to en\-\expndtw-1 counter someone with medical training. The hospitals were \expndtw-3 down there, the medical school, the most likely place for any \expndtw-1 charitable nuns-if Willie's rumor were true. Paul meant to \expndtw0 capture a dermie doctor or nurse and force the amorous-handed maniac at gun-point to go to Willie's aid. Then he \expndtw-5 would be done with her. When she stopped hurting, she would\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li144\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5\fs21 start craving-and he had no doubt that he would be the \expndtw-4 object of her manual affections.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li144\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx4310\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The bay was wind-chopped in the moonglow, no longer\line\expndtw2 glittering from the lights along 61st Street. The oleanders\line\expndtw-3 along Broadway were choked up with weeds. Cats\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6 or rabbits\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li139\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 rustled in the tousled growth that had been a\i  \i0 carefully tended \expndtw-2 parkway.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li125\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Paul wondered why the plague had chosen Man, and not \expndtw-1 the lower animals. It was true that an occasional dog or cow was seen with the plague, but the focus was upon humanity. \expndtw-4 And the craving to spread the disease was Man-directed, even \expndtw0 in animals. It was as if the neural entity deliberately sought \expndtw-2 out the species with the most complex nervous system. Was \expndtw1 its onslaught really connected with the meteorite swarm? Paul believed that it was.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li115\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx3533\cf1\lang1033\expndtw14\fs21 In the first place, the meteorites not predicted.\line\expndtw0 They were not a part of the regular cosmic bombardment.\line\expndtw1 And then there was the strange report that they were \i man-\line\expndtw-2 ufactured \i0 projectiles, teeming with frozen micro-organisms\line\expndtw-4 which came alive upon thawing. In these\expndtw0\tab\expndtw1 days of tumult and\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li115\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 confusion, however, it was hard. Nevertheless Paul believed \expndtw0 it. Neuroderm had no first cousins among Earth diseases.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li96\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 What manner of beings, then, had sent such a curse? Po\-\expndtw-1 tential invaders? If so, they were slow in coming. One thing \expndtw-2 was generally agreed upon by the scientists: the missiles had \expndtw1 not been "sent" from another solar planet. Their direction \expndtw-2 upon entering the atmosphere was wrong. They could con\-\expndtw0 ceivably have been fired from an interplanetary launching ship, but their velocity was about equal to the theoretical \expndtw-2 velocity which a body would obtain in falling sunward from the near-infinite distance. This seemed to hint the projectiles \expndtw0 had come from another star.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Paul was startled suddenly by the flare of a match from\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 the shadow of a building. He stopped dead still in the street.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\fs21  A man was leaning against the wall to light a cigarette. He\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 flicked the match out, and Paul watched the cigarette-glow\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri1805\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 make an arc as the man waved at him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li331\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Nice night, isn't it?" said the voice from the darkness.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li77\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Paul stood exposed in the moonlight, carrying the shotgun \expndtw1 at the ready. The voice sounded like that of an adolescent, \expndtw2 not fully changed to its adult timbre. If the youth wasn't a dermie, why wasn't he afraid that Paul might be one? And \expndtw-3 if he was a derrnie, why wasn't he advancing in the hope that \expndtw1 Paul might be as yet untouched?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2414\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "I said, 'Nice night, isn't it?' Watcha carrying the \i gun \i0 for? \expndtw3 Been shooting rabbits?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Paul moved a little closer and fumbled for his flashlight \expndtw3 Then he threw its beam on the slouching figure in the shad\-\expndtw2 ows. He saw a young man, perhaps sixteen, reclining against \expndtw4 the wall. He saw the pearl-gray face that characterized the \expndtw2 final and permanent stage of neuroderm! He stood frozen to the spot a dozen feet away from the youth, who blinked per\-\expndtw3 plexedly into the light. The kid was assuming automatically \expndtw5 that he was another dermie! Paul tried to keep him blinded \expndtw4 while he played along with the fallacy.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Yeah, it's a nice night. You got any idea where I can find \expndtw0 a doctor?"\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 The boy frowned. "Doctor? You mean you don't know?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Know what? I'm new here "\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "New? Oh..." the boy's nostrils began twitching slightly, \expndtw5 as if he were sniffing at the night air. "Well, most of the \expndtw3 priests down at Saint Mary's were missionaries. They're all \expndtw0 doctors. Why? You sick?"\cf0\lang2057\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "No, there's a girl... But never mind. How do I get there? \expndtw3 And are any of them dermies?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri10\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The boy's eyes wandered peculiarly, and his mouth fell \expndtw5 open, as if he had been asked why a circle wasn't square. "You are new, aren't you? They're all dermies, if you want \expndtw3 to call them that. Wh-" Again the nostrils were flaring. He flicked the cigarette away suddenly and inhaled a slow draft \expndtw4 of the breeze. "I\expndtw18 ...\expndtw4  I smell a nonhyper," he muttered.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Paul started to back away. His scalp bristled a warning. \expndtw2 The boy advanced a step toward him. A slow beam of antic\-\expndtw0 ipation began to glow in his face. He bared his teeth in a wide \expndtw3 grin of pleasure.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri19\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "You're not a hyper yet," he hissed, moving forward. "I've \expndtw6 never had a chance to touch a nonhyper..."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Stay back, or I'll kill you!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 The lad giggled and came on, talking to himself. "The \expndtw6 padre says it's wrong, but . . . you smell so \expndtw43 ...\expndtw6  so \expndtw57 ...\expndtw6  ugh \expndtw4 . . ." He flung himself forward with a low throaty cry.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Paul sidestepped the charge and brought the- gun barrel \expndtw1 down across the boy's head. The dermie sprawled howling in \expndtw6 the street. Paul pushed the gun close to his face, but the \expndtw2 youth started up again. Paul jabbed viciously with the barrel, \expndtw3 and felt it strike and tear. "I don't want to have to blow your \expndtw-3 head off-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2093\li2338\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 The boy howled and fell back. He crouched panting on his \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 hands and knees, head hung low, watching a\i  \i0 dark puddle of \expndtw0 blood gather on the pavement from a deep gash across his \expndtw-4 cheek. "Whatcha wanta do that for?" he whimpered. "I wasn't \expndtw-3 gonna hurt you." His tone was that of a wronged and rejected \expndtw-1 suitor,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Now, where's Saint Mary's? Is that one of the hospitals? \expndtw-1 How do I get there?" Paul had backed to a safe distance and \expndtw0 was covering the youth with the gun.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Straight down Broadway...  to the Boulevard ... you'll \expndtw2 see it down that neighborhood. About the fourth street, I \expndtw1 think." The boy looked up, and Paul saw the extent of the gash. It was deep and ragged, and the kid was crying.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Get up! You're going to lead me there."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\tx4114\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Pain had blanketed the call of the craving. The boy strug\-\line\expndtw1 gled to his feet, pressed a handkerchief against\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-7 the wound,\line\expndtw0 and with an angry glance at Paul, he set out down the road.\line\expndtw-1 Paul followed ten yards behind,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "If you take me through any dermie traps, I'll kill you."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "There aren't any traps," the youth mumbled.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li24\ri43\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Paul snorted unbelief, but did not repeat the warning. \expndtw-1 "What made you think I was another dermie?" he snapped.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Because there's no nonhypers in Galveston, This is a hy\-per colony. A nonhyper used to drift in occasionally, but the \expndtw1 priests had the bridge dynamited. The nonhypers upset the \expndtw-2 colony. As long as there aren't any around to smell, nobody \expndtw1 caused any trouble. During the day, there's a guard out on \expndtw-1 the causeway, and if any hypers come looking for a place to \expndtw0 stay, the guard ferries them across. If nonhypers come, he tells them about the colony, and they go away,"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri38\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Paul groaned. He had stumbled into a rat's nest. Was there \expndtw-2 no refuge from the gray curse? Now he would have to move \expndtw1 on. It seemed a hopeless quest. Maybe the old man he met \expndtw0 on his way to Houston had arrived at the only possible \expndtw-3 for peace: submission to the plague. But the thought sickened \expndtw-5 him somehow. He would have to find some barren island, find \expndtw-1 a healthy mate, and go to live a savage existence apart from all traces of civilization.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri62\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Didn't the guard stop you at the bridge?" the boy asked. \expndtw0 "He never came back today. He must be still out there."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri48\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Paul grunted "no" in a tone that warned against idle con\-\expndtw-3 versation. He guessed what had happened. The dermie guard \expndtw1 had probably spotted some healthy wanderers; and instead \expndtw-1 of warning them away, he rowed across the drawbridge and\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-202\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 set out to chase them. His body probably lay along the high\-\expndtw3 way somewhere, if the hypothetical wanderers were armed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 When they reached 23rd Street, a few blocks from the heart of the city, Paul hissed at the boy to stop. He heard \expndtw3 someone laugh. Footsteps were wandering along the side\-\expndtw4 walk, overhung by trees. He whispered to the boy to take \expndtw1 refuge behing a hedge. They crouched in the shadows several \expndtw4 yards apart while the voices drew nearer.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Brother James had a nice tenor," someone said softly. "But he sings his Latin with a western drawl. It sounds . . . \expndtw3 well . . . peculiar, to say the least. Brother John is a stickler for pronunciation. He won't let Fra James solo. Says it gives \expndtw5 a burlesque effect to the choir. Says it makes the sisters \expndtw0 giggle."\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 The other man chuckled quietly and started to reply. But \expndtw2 his voice broke off suddenly. The footsteps stopped a dozen \expndtw6 feet from Paul's hiding place. Paul, peering through the \expndtw3 hedge, saw a pair of brown-robed monks standing on the \expndtw1 sidewalk. "They were looking around suspiciously.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Brother Thomas, do you smell-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Aye, I smell it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Paul changed his position slightly, so as to keep the gun \expndtw3 pointed toward the pair of plague-stricken monastics. They \expndtw2 stood in embarrassed silence, peering into the darkness and shuffling their feet uneasily. One of them suddenly pinched his nose between thumb and forefinger. His companion fol\-\expndtw1 lowed suit.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Blessed be God," quavered one.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Blessed be His Holy Name," answered the other.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "Blessed be Jesus Christ, true God and true Man."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "Blessed be..."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 Gathering their robes high about their shins, the two monks turned and scurried away, muttering the Litany of \expndtw5 the Divine Praises as they went. Paul stood up and stared \expndtw2 after them in amazement. The sight of dermies running from \expndtw3 a potential victim was almost beyond belief. He questioned \expndtw4 his young guide. Still holding the handkerchief against his \expndtw3 bleeding face, the boy hung his head.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Bishop made a ruling against touching nonhypers," he \expndtw5 explained miserably. "Says it's a sin, unless the nonhyper \expndtw-1 submits of his own free will. Says even then it's wrong, except \expndtw3 in the ordinary ways that people come in contact with each \expndtw5 other. Calls it fleshly desire, and all that."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2088\li2333\ri1824\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Then why did you try to do it?" \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "I ain't so religious."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li67\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Well, sonny, you better get religious until we come to the hospital. Now, let's go,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 They marched on down Broadway encountering no other \expndtw3 pedestrians. Twenty minutes later, they were standing in\i  \i0 the \expndtw0 shadows before a hulking brick building, some of whose win\-\expndtw5 dows were yellow with lamplight. Moonlight bathed the s\expndtw4 tatue of a woman standing on a ledge over the entrance, \expndtw6 indicating to Paul that this was the hospital,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li48\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "'All right, boy. You go in and: send oat \i a \i0 derrnie doctor. \expndtw4 Tell him somebody wants to see him, but if you say I'm not \expndtw-2 a dermie, I'll come in and kill you. Now move. And don't come b\expndtw2 ack. Stay to get your face fixed,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx4858\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 The youth stumbled toward the entrance. Paul sat in the\line shadow of a tree, where he could see twenty yards in ail\line\expndtw1 directions and guard himself against approach. Soon a black-\line\expndtw4 clad priest came out of the emergency entrance, stopped\expndtw0\tab\expndtw1 on\line\expndtw4 the sidewalk, and glanced around.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Over here!" Paul hissed from across the street.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li34\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The priest advanced uncertainly. In the center of the road \expndtw2 he stopped again, and held his nose. "Y-you're a nonhyper," he said, almost accusingly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "That's right, and I've got a gun, so don't try anything."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "What's wrong? Are you sick? The lad said-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li24\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "There's a dermie girl down the island. She's been shot. \expndtw5 Tendon behind her heel is cut clean through. You're going \expndtw3 to help her,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 "Of course, but..," The priest paused. "You? A nonhyper? Helping a so-called dermie?" His voice went high with amaze\-\expndtw-2 ment.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li19\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "So I'm a sucker!" Paul barked. "Now get what you need, \expndtw0 and come on."\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "The Lord bless you," the priest mumbled in embarrass\-\expndtw5 ment as he hurried away,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li10\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Don't sic any of your maniacs on me?" Paul called after \expndtw4 him. "I'm armed."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li5\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 "I'll have to bring a surgeon," the cleric said over his shoul\-\expndtw-3 der.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri48\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 Five minutes later, Paul heard the muffled grunt of a \expndtw3 starter. Then an engine coughed to life. Startled, he scurried \expndtw4 away from the tree and sought safety in a clump of shrubs. \expndtw1 An ambulance backed out of the driveway and into the street. \expndtw7 It parked at the curb by the tree, engine running, A pallid\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2323\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 face glanced out curiously toward the shadows. "Where are you?" it called, but it was not the priest's voice.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Paul stood up and advanced a few steps.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "We'll have to wait on Father Mendelhaus," the driver \expndtw3 called. "He'll be a few minutes."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "You a dermie?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 "Of course. But don't worry. I've plugged my nose and I'm \expndtw1 wearing rubber gloves. I can't smell you. The sight of a non-\expndtw-1 hyper arouses some craving, of course. But it can be overcome \expndtw3 with a little willpower. I won't infect you, although I don't understand why you nonhypers fight so hard. You're bound to catch it sooner or later. And the world can't get back to \expndtw5 normal until everybody has it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Paul avoided the startling thought. "You the surgeon?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Uh, yes. Father Williamson's the name. I'm not really a specialist, but I did some surgery in Korea. How's the girl's \expndtw1 condition? Suffering shock?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "I wouldn't know."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 They fell silent until Father Mendelhaus returned. He \expndtw7 came across the street carrying a bag in one hand and a \expndtw1 brown bottle in the other. He held the bottle by the neck with \expndtw3 a pair of tongs and Paul could see the exterior of the bottle \expndtw5 steaming slightly as the priest passed through the beam of \expndtw3 the ambulance's headlights. He placed the flask on the curb \expndtw5 without touching it, then spoke to the man in the shadows.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Would you step behind the hedge and disrobe, young man? Then rub yourself thoroughly with this oil,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "I doubt it," Paul snapped. "What is it?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Don't worry, it's been in'the sterilizer. That's what took \expndtw3 me so long. It may be a little hot for you, however. It's only an antiseptic and deodorant. It'll kill your odor, and it'll also give you some protection against picking up stray microor\-\expndtw2 ganisms."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 After a few moments of anxious hesitation, Paul decided \expndtw5 to trust the priest. He carried the hot flask into the brush, \expndtw4 undressed, and bathed himself with the warm aromatic oil. \expndtw3 Then he slipped back into his clothes and reapproached the \expndtw2 ambulance.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Ride in back," Mendelhaus told him. "And you won't be \expndtw0 infected. No one's been in there for several weeks, and as you \expndtw3 probably know, the microorganisms die after a few hours' \expndtw4 exposure. They have to be transmitted from skin to skin, or else an object has to be handled very soon after a hyper has \expndtw3 touched it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Paul warily climbed inside. Mendelhaus opened a slide \expndtw0 and spoke through it from the front seat. "You'll have to show u\expndtw6 s the way."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi182\li110\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Straight out Broadway. Say, where did you get the gas-olin\expndtw2 e for this wagon?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The priest paused. "That has been something of a secret, \expndtw6 Oh well... I'll tell you. There's a tanker out in the harbor. \expndtw2 The people left town too quickly to think of it. Automobiles \expndtw3 are scarcer than fuel in Galveston. Up north, you find them \expndtw4 stalled everywhere. But since Galveston didn't have any through-traffic, there were no cars running out of gas, The ones we have are the ones that were left in the repair shop, \expndtw5 something wrong with them. And we don't have any me\-\expndtw3 chanics to fix them."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Paul neglected to mention that he was qualified for the j\expndtw4 ob. The priest might get ideas. He fell into gloomy silence as the ambulance turned onto Broadway and headed down-\expndtw1 island. He watched the back of the priests heads, silhouetted \expndtw4 against the headlighted pavement. They seemed not at all c\expndtw5 oncerned about their disease. Mendelhaus was a slender \expndtw4 man, with a blond crew cut and rather bushy eyebrows. He \expndtw2 had a thin, aristocratic face-now plague-gray-but jovial \expndtw4 enough. It might be the face of an ascetic, but for the quick blue eyes that seemed full of lively interest rather than in\-\expndtw2 ward-turning mysticism, Williamson, on the other hand, was \expndtw5 a rather plain man, with a stolid tweedy look, despite his \expndtw0 black cassock.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "What do you think of our plan here?" asked Father Men\-delhaus.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "What plan?" Paul grunted.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "Oh, didn't the boy tell you? We're trying to make the \expndtw3 island a refuge for hypers who are willing to sublimate their \expndtw7 craving and turn their attentions toward reconstruction. \expndtw5 We're also trying to make an objective study of this neural \expndtw0 condition, We have some good scientific minds, too-Doctor \expndtw3 Relmone of Fordham, Father Seyes of Notre Dame, two bi-o\expndtw4 logists from Boston College..."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Dermies trying to cure the plague?" Paul gasped.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li10\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Mendelhaus laughed merrily. "I didn't say cure it, son. I said 'study it.'"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4 "Why?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "To learn how to live with it, of course. It\super r\nosupersub s been pointed \expndtw1 out by our philosophers that things become evil only through \expndtw6 human misuse. Morphine, for instance, is a product of the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Creator; it is therefore good when properly used for relief of \expndtw4 pain. When mistreated by an addict, it becomes a monster. \expndtw5 We bear this in mind as we study neuroderm."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Paul snorted contemptuously. "Leprosy is evil, I suppose, \expndtw4 because Man mistreated bacteria?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The priest laughed again. "You've got me there. I'm no \expndtw1 philosopher. But you can't compare neuroderm with leprosy,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Paul shuddered. "The hell I\i  \i0 can't! It's worse."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Ah? Suppose you tell me what makes it worse? List the \expndtw1 symptoms for me."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Paul hesitated, listing them mentally. They were: discol\-oration of the skin, low fever, hallucinations, and the insane \expndtw0 craving to infect others. They seemed bad enough, so he listed \expndtw-1 them orally. "Of course, people don't die of it," he added. "But \expndtw4 which is worse, insanity or death?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 The priest turned to smile back at him through the port\-\expndtw3 hole. "Would you call me insane? It's true that victims have \expndtw5 frequently lost their minds. But that's not a direct result of \expndtw-1 neuroderm. Tell me, how would you feel if everyone screamed \expndtw2 and ran when they saw you coming, or hunted you down like \expndtw3 a criminal? How long would your sanity last?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Paul said nothing. Perhaps the anathema was a contrib\-\expndtw9 uting factor-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Unless you were of very sound mind to begin with, you \expndtw4 probably couldn't endure it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "But the craving . . . and the hallucinations . . ."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "True," murmured the priest thoughtfully. "The halluci\-\expndtw3 nations. Tell me something else, if all the world was blind \expndtw5 save one man, wouldn't the world be inclined to call that man's sight a hallucination? And the man with eyes might \expndtw3 even come to agree with the world,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Again Paul was silent. There was no arguing with Men-\expndtw5 delhaus, who probably suffered the strange delusions and \expndtw6 thought them real.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "And the craving," the priest went on. "It's true that the craving can be a rather unpleasant symptom. It's the con\-\expndtw1 dition's way of perpetuating itself. Although we're not certain \expndtw3 how it works, it seems able to stimulate erotic sensations in \expndtw2 the hands. We do know the microorganisms get to the brain, \expndtw5 but we're not yet sure what they do there."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "What facts have you discovered?" Paul asked cautiously.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Mendelhaus grinned at him. "Tut! I'm not going to tell \expndtw2 you, because I don't want to be called a 'crazy dermie.' You wouldn't believe me, you see."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Paul glanced outside and saw that they were approaching \expndtw-2 the vicinity of the fishing cottage, He pointed out the lamplit \expndtw-1 window to the driver, and the ambulance turned onto a side \expndtw0 road. Soon they were parked behind the shanty. The priests \expndtw2 scrambled out and carried the stretcher toward the light, \expndtw1 while Paul skulked to a safer distance and sat down in the \expndtw-4 grass to watch. When Willie was safe in the vehicle, he meant \expndtw0 to walk back to the bridge, swim across the gap, and return \expndtw1 to the mainland.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li77\sl-197\slmult0\tx2582\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Soon Mendelhaus came out and walked toward him with \expndtw3 a solemn stride, although Paul was sitting quietly in the \expndtw-4 deepest shadow-invisible, he had thought. He arose quickly \expndtw1 as the priest approached. Anxiety tightened his throat, "Is \expndtw2 she. . \expndtw15 . is \expndtw2 Willie\expndtw55\i ...\i0 ?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li67\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 "She's irrational," Mendelhaus murmured sadly. "Al\-\expndtw-1 most .., less than sane. Some of it may be due to high fever, \expndtw11 but..."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li307\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-8\fs21 "Yes?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li67\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "She tried to kill herself. With a knife. Said something about buckshot being the best way, or something..."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li67\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Jeezis! Jeezis!" Paul sank weakly in the grass and covered \expndtw1 his face with his hands,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li58\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Blessed be His Holy Name," murmured the priest by way \expndtw3 of turning the oath aside. "She didn't hurt herself badly, \expndtw-2 though. Wrist's cut a little. She was too weak to do a real job \expndtw0 of it, Father Will's giving her a hypo and a tetanus shot and \expndtw-2 some sulfa. We're out of penicillin."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li58\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He stopped speaking and watched Paul's wretchedness for \expndtw-1 a moment, "You love the girl, don't you?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li48\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Paul stiffened. "Are you crazy? Love a little tramp dermie? \expndtw7 Jeezis..,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "Blessed be-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li53\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Listen! Will she be all right?  I'm getting out of here!" He \expndtw0 climbed unsteadily to his feet,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi293\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I don't know, son, infection's the real threat, and shock. If we'd got to her sooner, she'd have been safer. And if she \expndtw1 was in the ultimate stage of neuroderm, it would help."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-9\fs21 "Why?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx4186\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Oh, various reasons. You'll learn, someday. But listen,\line\expndtw-4 you look exhausted. Why don't you come back to the hospital\line\expndtw-2 with us? The third floor is entirely vacant. There's no danger\line\expndtw0 of infection up there, and we keep a sterile room ready just\line\expndtw-4 in case we get a nonhyper case. You can lock the door inside,\line\expndtw-1 if you want to, but it wouldn't be necessary. Nuns\expndtw0\tab\expndtw3 are on the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2376\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 floor below. Our male staff lives in the basement. There aren't \expndtw4 any laymen in the building. I'll guarantee that you won't be \expndtw2 bothered."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li48\ri19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "No, I've got to go," he growled, then softened his voice: \expndtw5 "I appreciate it though, Father "\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Whatever you wish. I'm sorry, though. You might be able \expndtw3 to provide yourself with some kind of transportation if you \expndtw2 waited."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li24\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Uh-uh! I don't mind telling you, your island makes me \expndtw2 jumpy."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw12 "Why?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Paul glanced at the priest's gray hands, "Well... you still \expndtw3 feel the craving, don't you?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Mendelhaus touched his nose. "Cotton plugs, with a little \expndtw2 camphor. I can't smell you." He hesitated. "No, I won't lie to \expndtw4 you. The urge to touch is still there to some extent."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "And in a moment of weakness, somebody might-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw7 The priest straightened his shoulders. His eyes went \expndtw3 chilly. "I have taken certain vows, young man. Sometimes \expndtw5 when I see a beautiful woman, I feel desire. When I see a \expndtw0 man eating a thick steak on a fast-day, I feel envy and hunger. \expndtw1 When I see a doctor earning large fees, I chafe under the vow \expndtw3 of poverty. But by denying desire's demands, one learns to make desire useful in other ways. Sublimation, some call it. A priest can use it and do more useful work thereby. I am a priest."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri29\sb10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 He nodded curtly, turned on his heel and strode away. \expndtw0 Halfway to the cottage, he paused. "She's calling for someone \expndtw4 named Paul. Know who it might be? Family perhaps?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Paul stood speechless. The priest shrugged and continued \expndtw3 toward the lighted doorway.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw9 "Father, wait..."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3 "Yes?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri38\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "I-I am a little tired. The room\expndtw12 ...\expndtw1  I mean, will you show \expndtw4 me where to get transportation tomorrow?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Certainly."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri43\sb211\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Before midnight, the party had returned to the hospital. \expndtw0 Paul lay on a comfortable mattress for the first time in weeks, sleepless, and staring at the moonlight on the sill. Somewhere \expndtw4 downstairs, Willie was lying unconscious in an operating \expndtw3 room, while the surgeon tried to repair the torn tendon. Paul \expndtw6 had ridden back with them in the ambulance, sitting a few\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-206\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 feet from the stretcher, avoiding her sometimes wandering \expndtw5 arms, and listening to her delirious moaning.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx3898\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Now he felt his skin crawling with belated\expndtw0\tab hypochondria.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tlul\tx2122\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 What a fool he had been-touching the rope, the boat, the \expndtw4 wheelbarrow, riding in the ambulance. There were a thou\-\expndtw3 sand ways he could have picked up a few stray microorga\-\expndtw2 nisms lingering from a dermie's touch. And now he lay here \expndtw3 in this nest of disease....\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri10\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 But strange-it was the most peaceful, the sanest place \expndtw1 he'd seen in months. The religious orders simply accepted the \expndtw0 plague-with masochistic complacency perhaps-but calmly. \expndtw1 A cross, or a penance, or something. But no, they seemed to \expndtw2 accept it almost gladly. Nothing peculiar about that. All der-\expndtw0 mies went wild-eyed with happiness about the "lovely desire" \expndtw3 they possessed. The priests weren't wild-eyed\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li29\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Neither was normal man equipped with socially shaped sexual desire. Sublimation?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Peace," he muttered, and went to sleep.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri29\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 A knocking at the door awoke him at dawn. He grunted \expndtw4 at it disgustedly and sat up in bed. The door, which he had \expndtw0 forgotten to lock, swung open, A chubby nun with a breakfast \expndtw5 tray started into the room. She saw his face, then stopped. \expndtw3 She closed her eyes, wrinkled her nose, and framed a silent \expndtw4 prayer with her lips. Then she backed slowly out.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 "I'm sorry, sir!" she quavered through the door, "I-I knew \expndtw5 there was a patient in here, but I didn't know... you weren't \expndtw3 a hyper. Forgive me."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 He heard her scurrying away down the hall. Somehow, he \expndtw3 began to feel safe. But wasn't that exactly what they wanted \expndtw4 him to feel? He realized suddenly that he was trapped. He \expndtw2 had left the shotgun in the emergency room. What was he- guest or captive? Months of fleeing from the gray terror had left him suspicious.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Soon he would find out. He arose and began dressing. \expndtw3 Before he finished, Mendelhaus came. He did not enter, but \expndtw0 stood in the hallway beyond the door. He smiled a faint greet\-\expndtw3 ing, and said, "So you're Paul?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 He felt heat rising in his face. "She's awake, then?" he asked gruffly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li235\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 The priest nodded. "Want to see her?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "No, I've got to be going."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li230\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "It would do her good."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2098\li2328\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 He coughed angrily. Why did the black-cassocked dermie \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 have to put it that way? "Well it wouldn't do me any good!" \expndtw0 he snarled. "I've been around too many gray-leather hides \expndtw-2 already!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Mendelhaus shrugged, but his eyes bore a hint of con\-\expndtw-6 tempt. "As you wish. You may leave by the outside stairway- \expndtw1 to avoid disturbing the sisters."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "To avoid being touched, you mean!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "No one will touch you."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Paul finished dressing in silence. The reversal of attitudes disturbed him. He resented the seeming "tolerance" that was \expndtw-1 being extended him. It was like asylum inmates being "tol\-\expndtw0 erant" of the psychiatrist.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "I'm ready!" he growled.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Mendelhaus led him down the corridor and out onto a \expndtw-1 sunlit balcony. They descended a stone stairway while the \expndtw0 priest talked over his shoulder.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "She's still not fully rational, and there's some fever. It \expndtw-2 wouldn't be anything to worry about two years ago, but now \expndtw-1 we're out of most of the latest drugs. If sulfa won't hold the \expndtw-3 infection, we'll have to amputate, of course. We should know \expndtw0 in two or three days."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\tx3672\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He paused and looked back at Paul, who had stopped on the stairway. "Coming?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Where is she?" Paul asked weakly. "I'll see her."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The priest frowned. "You don't have to, son. I'm sorry if \expndtw-2 I implied any obligation on your part. Really, you've done \expndtw-3 enough. I gather that you saved her life. Very few nonhypers \expndtw0 would do a thing like that. I-"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Where is she?" he snapped angrily.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The priest nodded. "Downstairs. Come on."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 As they re-entered the building on the ground floor, the \expndtw0 priest cupped his hands to his mouth and called out, "Non-\expndtw-4 hyper coming! Plug your noses, or get out of the way! Avoid \expndtw-2 circumstances of temptation!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 When they moved along the corridor, it was Paul who felt \expndtw1 like the leper. Mendelhaus led him into the third room.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Willie saw him enter and hid her gray hands beneath the \expndtw-2 sheet. She smiled faintly, tried to sit up, and failed. William\-\expndtw1 son and a nun-nurse who had both been standing by the \expndtw-3 bedside turned to leave the room. Mendelhaus followed them \expndtw-2 out and closed the door.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri53\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 There was a long, painful pause. Willie tried to grin. He \expndtw-2 shuffled his feet.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2083\li2323\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "They've got me in a cast," she said conversationally. \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "You'll be all right," he said hastily. "It won't be, long \expndtw-3 before you'll be up. Galveston's a good place for you. They're \expndtw0 all dermies here."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li43\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 She clenched her eyes tightly shut, "God! God! I hope I \expndtw5 never hear that word again. After last night... that old \expndtw0 woman in the rocking chair . . . I\i  \i0 stayed there alt alone . . . and the wind'd start the chair rocking. Ooh!" She looked at hi\expndtw1 m\i  \i0 with abnormally bright eyes. "I'd rather die than touch anybody now...after seeing that. Somebody touched her, didn't they, Paul? That's why she did it, wasn't it?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li48\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He squirmed and backed toward the door. "Willie... I'm \expndtw0 sorry for what I said. I mean-"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "Don't worry, Paul! I wouldn't touch you now." She \expndtw-1 clenched her hands and brought them up before her face, to \expndtw2 stare at them with glittering hate. "I loathe myself!" she \expndtw-4 hissed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 What was it Mendelhaus had said, about the dermie going \expndtw2 insane because of being an outcast rather than because of \expndtw-3 the plague? But she wouldn't be an outcast here. Only among \expndtw2 nonhypers, like himself..."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Get well quick, Willie," he muttered, then hurriedly \expndtw-2 slipped out into the corridor. She called his name twice, then \expndtw-1 fell silent.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "That was quick," murmured Mendelhaus, glancing at his \expndtw-3 pale face.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Where can I get a car?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li19\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The priest rubbed his chin. "I was just speaking td Brother \expndtw2 Matthew about that. Uh... how would you like to have a \expndtw1 small yacht instead?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Paul caught his breath, A yacht would mean access to the \expndtw-1 seas, and to an island. A yacht was the perfect solution. He \expndtw1 stammered gratefully,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Good," said Mendelhaus. "There's a small craft in dry \expndtw-1 dock down at the basin. It was apparently left there because \expndtw0 there weren't any dock crews around to get her afloat again. I took the liberty of asking Brother Matthew to find some \expndtw2 men and get her in the water."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Dermies?"   \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Of course. The boat will be fumigated, but it isn't really \expndtw-1 necessary. The infection dies out in a few hours. It'll take a \expndtw-3 while, of course, to get the boat ready. Tomorrow... next day, \expndtw-1 maybe. Bottom's cracked; it'll need some patching."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\ri48\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Paul's smile weakened. More delay. Two more days of \expndtw-3 living in the gray shadow. Was the priest really to be trusted?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4 Why should he even provide the boat? The jaws of an invisible \expndtw2 trap, slowly closing.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Mendelhaus saw his doubt, "If you'd rather leave now, \expndtw0 you're free to do so. We're really not going to as much trouble \expndtw7 as it might seem. There are several yachts at the dock; \expndtw2 Brother Matthew's been preparing to clean one or two up for \expndtw1 our own use. And we might as well let you have one. They've \expndtw2 been deserted by their owners. And . . . well . . . you helped the girl when nobody else would have done so. Consider the \expndtw5 boat as our way of returning the favor, eh?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 A yacht. The open sea. A semitropical island, uninhabited, \expndtw2 on the brink of the Caribbean. And a woman, of course- chosen from among the many who would be willing to share \expndtw1 such an escape. Peculiarjy, he glanced at Willie's door. It was \expndtw3 too bad about her. But she'd get along okay. The yacht"... if \expndtw5 he were only certain of Mendelhaus' intentions...\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 The priest began frowning at Paul's hesitation. "Well?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw7 "I don't want to put you to any trouble-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Nonsense! You're still afraid of us! Very well, come with \expndtw2 me. There's someone I want you to see." Mendelhaus turned \expndtw4 and started down the corridor.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 Paul lingered. "Who...what-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Come on!" the priest snapped impatiently.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Reluctantly, Paul followed him to the stairway. They de\-\expndtw4 scended to a gloomy basement and entered a smelly labo\-\expndtw3 ratory through a double-door. Electric illumination startled him; then he heard the sound of a gasoline engine and knew \expndtw4 that the power was generated locally.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Germicidal lamps," murmured the priest, following his ceilingward gaze. "Some of them are. Don't worry about \expndtw5 touching things. It's sterile in here."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "But it's not sterile for your convenience," growled an in\-visible voice. "And it won't be sterile at all if you don't stay \expndtw3 out! Beat it, preacher!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\sl-197\slmult0\tx3634\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Paul looked for the source of the voice, and saw a small, \expndtw3 short-necked man bending his shaggy gray head over a mi\-\expndtw4 croscope at the other end of the lab. He had spoken without glancing up at his visitors.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 "This is Doctor Seevers, of Princeton, son," said the priest, \expndtw4 unruffled by the scientist's ire. "Claims he's an atheist, but personally I think he's a puritan. Doctor, this is the young \expndtw6 man I was telling you about. Will you tell him what you \expndtw3 know about neuroderm?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2093\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Seevers jotted something on a pad, but kept his eye to the \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi158\li72\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 instrument. "Why don't we just give it to him, and let him fi\expndtw2 nd out for himself?" the scientist grumbled sadistically.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi269\li67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Don't frighten him, you heretic! I brought him here to be illuminated."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li58\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Illuminate him yourself. I'm busy. And stop calling me \expndtw5 names. I'm not an atheist; I'm a biochemist."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li53\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Yesterday you were a biophysicist. Now, entertain my \expndtw0 young man." Mendelhaus blocked the doorway with his body. \expndtw5 Paul, with his jaw clenched angrily, had turned to leave.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "That's all I can do, preacher," Seevers grunted. ''Enter\-\expndtw2 tain him. I know nothing. Absolutely nothing. I have some observed data. I have noticed some correlations. I have seen \expndtw4 things happen, I have traced the patterns of the happenings and found some probable common denominators. And that is all! I admit it. Why don't you preachers admit it in your \expndtw2 racket?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li43\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Seevers, as you can see, is inordinately proud of his hu\-\expndtw5 mility-if that's not a paradox," the priest said to Paul.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Now, Doctor, this young man-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li34\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 Seevers heaved a resigned sigh. His voice went sour-sweet. \expndtw5 "All right, sit down, young man. I'll entertain you as soon \expndtw3 as I get through counting free nerve-endings in this piece of \expndtw0 skin."\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri34\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Mendelhaus winked at his guest. "Seevers calls it ma\-\expndtw-1 sochism when we observe a fast-day or do penance. And there \expndtw1 he site, ripping off patches of his own hide to look at through \expndtw2 his peeping glass. Masochism-hen!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\i "Get \i0 out, preacher!" the scientist bellowed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Mendelhaus laughed mockingly, nodded Paul toward a \expndtw5 chair, and left the lab. Paul sat uneasily watching the back \expndtw2 of Seevers' lab jacket.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li14\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 "Nice bunch of people really-these black-frocked yahoos," \expndtw6 Seevers murmured conversationally. "If they'd just stop \expndtw4 trying to convert me."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Doctor Seevers, maybe I'd better-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Quiet! You bother me. And sit still. I can't stand to have \expndtw4 people running in and out of here. You're in; now stay in."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Paul fell silent. He was uncertain whether or not Seevers \expndtw2 was a dermie. The small man's lab jacket bunched up to hide the back of his neck, and the sleeves covered his arms. His \expndtw3 hands were rubber-gloved, and a knot of white cord behind \expndtw5 his head told Paul that he was wearing a gauze mask. His ears were bright pink, but their color was meaningless; it \expndtw2 took several months for the gray coloring to seep to all areas\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 of the skin. But Paul guessed he was a dermie-and wearing \expndtw1 the gloves and mask to keep his equipment sterile.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 He glanced idly around the large room. There were several \expndtw1 glass cages of rats against the wall. They seemed airtight, \expndtw0 with ducts for forced ventilation. About half the rats were \expndtw-1 afflicted with neuroderm in its various stages, A few wore \expndtw0 shaved patches of skin where the disease had been freshly and forcibly inflicted. Paul caught the fleeting impression \expndtw1 that several of the animals were staring at him fixedly. He \expndtw-2 shuddered and looked away.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li14\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He glanced casually at the usual maze of laboratory glass\-\expndtw1 ware, then turned his attention to a pair of hemispheres, \expndtw-1 suspended like a trophy on the wall. He recognized them as \expndtw-2 the twin halves of one of the meteorites, with the small jelly-\expndtw1 pocket in the center. Beyond it hung a large picture frame containing several typewritten sheets. Another frame held \expndtw-1 four pictures of bearded scientists from another century, ob\-\expndtw-3 viously clipped from magazine or textbook. There was noth\-\expndtw1 ing spectacular about the lab. It smelted of clean dust and sour things. Just a small respectable workshop,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Seevers' chair creaked suddenly. "It checks," he said to \expndtw-2 himself. "It checks again. Forty per cent increase," He threw \expndtw-4 down the stub pencil and whirled suddenly. Paul saw a pudgy \expndtw-2 round face with glittering eyes. A dark splotch of neuroderm \expndtw-1 had crept up from the chin to split his mouth and cover one cheek and an eye, giving him the appearance of a black and \expndtw-2 white bulldog with a mixed color muzzle.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "It checks," he barked at Paul, then smirked contentedly,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "What checks?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The scientist rolled up a sleeve to display a patch of ad\-\expndtw-4 hesive tape on a portion of his arm which had been discolored \expndtw-3 by the disease. "Here," he grunted. "Two weeks ago this area \expndtw1 was normal. I took a centimeter of skin from right next to \expndtw-1 this one, and counted the nerve endings. Since that time, the \expndtw-2 derm's crept down over the area. I took another square cen\-\expndtw1 timeter today, and recounted. Forty per cent increase."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Paul frowned with disbelief. It was generally known that \expndtw10 neuroderm had a sensitizing effect, but new nerve \expndtw1 endings... No. He didn't believe it.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Third time I've checked it," Seevers said happily. "One \expndtw1 place ran up to sixty-five per cent, Heh! Smart little bugs, \expndtw-1 aren't they? Inventing new somesthetic receptors that way!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Paul swallowed with difficulty. "What did you say?" he \expndtw-5 gasped.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li67\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Seevers inspected him serenely, "So you're a nonhyper, are you? Yes, indeed, I can smell that you are. Vile, really. \expndtw1 Can't understand why sensible hypers would want to paw \expndtw-2 you. But then, I've insured myself against such foolishness."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li62\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He said it so casually that Paul blinked before he caught \expndtw-1 the full impact of it. "Y-y-you've done what?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li53\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\tx4138\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "What I said. When I first caught it\i , \i0 I simply sat down\line\expndtw-3 with a velvet-tipped stylus and located the spots on my hands\line\expndtw-1 that gave rise to pleasurable sensations. Then I burned them\line\expndtw3 out with an electric needle. There aren't many of them,\line\expndtw-2 really-one or two points per square centimeter." He tugged\line\expndtw-1 off his gloves and exhibited pick-marked palms\expndtw0\tab\expndtw1 to prove it.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I didn't want to be bothered with such silly urges. Waste of \expndtw-2 time, chasing nonhypers--for me it is. I never learned what \expndtw1 it's like, so I've never missed it." He turned his hands over \expndtw3 and stared at them. "Stubborn little critters keep growing \expndtw-1 new ones. and I keep burning them out."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri38\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Paul leaped to his feet, "Are you trying to tell me that the plague causes new nerve cells to grow?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li38\ri29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Seevers looked up coldly. "Ah, yes. You came here to be \expndtw1 illoooominated, as the padre put it. If you wish to be de-\expndtw0 idiotized, please stop shouting, Otherwise, I'll ask you to \expndtw-4 leave."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri34\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Paul, who had felt like leaving a moment ago, now sub\-\expndtw-3 sided quickly. "I'm sorry," he snapped, then softened his tone \expndtw0 to repeat: "I'm sorry,"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri38\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Seevers took a deep breath, stretched his short meaty arms in an unexpected yawn, then relaxed and grinned, "Sit down, \expndtw0 sit down, m'boy. Ill tell you what you want to know, if you really want to know anything. Do you?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "Of course!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\ri48\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "You don't! You just want to know how you-whatever \expndtw-6 your name is-will be affected by events. You don"t care about \expndtw0 understanding for its own sake. Few people do. That's why \expndtw2 we're in this mess. The padre now, he cares about under\-standing events-but not for their own sake. He cares, bat for his flock's sake for his God's sake-which is, I must \expndtw-2 admit, a better attitude than that of the common herd, whose \expndtw0 only interest is in their own safety. But if people would just \expndtw1 want to understand events for the understanding's sake, we \expndtw-4 wouldn't be in such a pickle."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri72\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Paul watched the professor's bright eyes and took the lec\-\expndtw2 ture quietly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-202\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "And so, before I illuminate you, I want to make an im\-\expndtw2 possible request."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Yes, sir."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 "I ask you to be completely objective," Seevers continued, \expndtw1 rubbing the bridge of his nose and covering his eyes with his \expndtw5 hand. "I want you to forget you ever heard of neuroderm \expndtw1 while you listen to me. Rid yourself of all preconceptions, \expndtw0 especially those connected with fear. Pretend these are purely \expndtw4 hypothetical events that I'm going to discuss." He took his \expndtw1 hands down from his eyes and grinned sheepishly. "It always \expndtw4 embarrasses me to ask for that kind of cooperation when I know damn well I'll never get it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "I'll try to be objective, sir."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Bah!" Seevers slid down to sit on his spine, and hooked \expndtw3 the base of his skull over the back of the chair. He blinked \expndtw5 thoughtfully at the ceiling for a moment, then folded his \expndtw4 hands across his small paunch and closed his eyes.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 When he spoke again, he was speaking to himself: "As\-\expndtw5 sume a planet, somewhat earthlike, but not quite. It has \expndtw1 carboniferous life forms, but not human. Warm-blooded, probably, and semi-intelligent. And the planet has something \expndtw3 else-it has an overabundance of parasite forms. Actually, the various types of parasites are the dominant species. The \expndtw4 warm-blooded animals are the parasites' vegetables, so to \expndtw0 speak. Now, during two billion years, say, of survival contests \expndtw4 between parasite species, some parasites are quite likely to \expndtw1 develop some curious methods of adaptation. Methods of in\-suring the food supply-animals, who must have been taking \expndtw4 a beating."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri14\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Seevers glanced down from the ceiling. "Tell me, young\-\expndtw4 ster, what major activity did Man invent to secure his veg\-\expndtw1 etable food supply?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Agriculture?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "Certainly. Man is a parasite, as far as vegetables are concerned. But he learned to eat his cake and have it, too. \expndtw4 He learned to perpetuate the species he was devouring. A very remarkable idea, if you stop to think about it. Very!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "I don't see-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Hush! Now, let's suppose that one species of micropar-\expndtw4 asites on our hypothetical planet learned, through long ev\-\expndtw5 olutionary processes, to stimulate regrowth in the animal \expndtw4 tissue they devoured. Through exuding controlled amounts of growth hormone, I think. Quite an advancement, eh?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2088\li2323\ri1152\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Paul had begun leaning forward tensely. \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\fs21 "But it's only the first step. It let the host live longer, \expndtw-3 although not pleasantly, I imagine. The growth control would \expndtw3 be clumsy at first. But soon, all parasite-species either \expndtw1 learned to do it, or died out. Then came the contest for the best kind of control. The parasites who kept their hosts in \expndtw0 the best physical condition naturally did a better job of sur\-vival-since the parasite-ascendancy had cut down on the \expndtw-4 food supply, just as Man wastes his own resources. And since \expndtw1 animals were contending among themselves for\i  \i0 a place in \expndtw0 the sun, it was to the parasite's advantage to help insure the \expndtw-3 survival of his\i  \i0 host-species--through growth control."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 Seevers winked solemnly. "Now begins the downfall of the \expndtw0 parasites-their decadence. They concentrated all their ef\-\expndtw-3 forts along the lines of \expndtw66 ...\expndtw-3  uh \expndtw58 ...\expndtw-3  scientific farming, you \expndtw-2 might say. They began growing various sorts of defense and \expndtw-1 attack weapons for their hosts-weird bio-devices, perhaps. \expndtw-4 Horns, swords, fangs, stingers, poison-throwers-we can only \expndtw1 guess. But eventually, one group of parasites hit upon- \expndtw-3 what?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li29\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Paul, who was beginning to stir uneasily, could only stam\-\expndtw1 mer. Where was Seevers getting all this?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Say it!" the scientist demanded.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "The... nervous system?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "That's- right. You don't need to whisper it. The nervous \expndtw1 system. It was probably an unsuccessful parasite at first, \expndtw-1 because nerve tissue grows slowly. And it's a long stretch of \expndtw1 evolution between a microspecies which could stimulate \expndtw6 nerve growth and one which could direct utilize \expndtw-2 growth for the host's advantage-and for its own. But at last, \expndtw1 after a long struggle, our little species gets there. It begins \expndtw2 sharpening the hosfs senses, building up complex senses \expndtw-1 from aggregates\i  \i0 of\i  \i0 old-style receptors, and increasing the \expndtw1 host's intelligence within limits."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\sl-197\slmult0\tx4603\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Seevers grinned mischievously. "Conies a planetary shake-\expndtw3 up of the first magnitude. Such parasites would naturally \expndtw1 pick the host species with the highest intelligence to begin with. With the extra boost, this brainy animal quickly \expndtw-1 down its own enemies, and consequently the enemies \expndtw1 of its\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 microbenefactor. It puts itself in much the same position that \expndtw1 Man's in on Earth-lord it over the beasts, divine right to \expndtw0 run the place, and all that. Now understand-it's the animal \expndtw-2 who's become intelligent, not the parasites. The parasites are \expndtw0 operating on complex instinct patterns,, like a hive of bees. \expndtw2 They're wonderful neurological engineers-like bees are\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 good structural engineers; blind instinct, accumulated through \expndtw1 evolution."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 He paused to light a cigarette. "If you feel ill, young man, \expndtw5 there's drinking water in that bottle. You look ill."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "I'm all right!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Well, to continue: The intelligent animal became master \expndtw0 of his planet. Threats to his existence were overcome-unless \expndtw1 he was a threat to himself, like we are. But now, the parasites had found a safe home. No new threats to force readaptation. They sat back and sighed and became stagnant-as unchang\-\expndtw5 ing as horseshoe crabs or amoeba or other Earth ancients. \expndtw3 They kept right on working in their neurological beehives, and now they became cultivated by the animal, who recog\-\expndtw4 nized their benefactors. They didn't know it, but they were \expndtw3 no longer the dominant species. They had insured their sur\-\expndtw2 vival by leaning on their animal prop, who now took care of \expndtw4 them with godlike charity-and selfishness. The parasites \expndtw2 had achieved biological heaven. They kept on working, but \expndtw3 they stopped fighting. The host was their welfare state, you might say. End of a sequence."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 He blew a long breath of smoke and leaned forward to watch Paul, with casual amusement. Paul suddenly realized \expndtw5 that he was sitting on the edge of his chair and gaping. He \expndtw2 forced a relaxation.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Wild guesswork," he breathed uncertainly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Some of it's guesswork," Seevers admitted. "But none of \expndtw3 it's wild. There is supporting evidence. It's in the form of a \expndtw1 message."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2 "Message?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Sure. Come, I'll show you." Seevers arose and moved to\-\expndtw2 ward the wall. He stopped before the two hemispheres. "On second thought, you better show yourself. Take down that \expndtw3 sliced meteorite, will you? It's sterile."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Paul crossed the room, climbed unsteadily upon a bench, \expndtw5 and brought down the globular meteorite. It was the first \expndtw3 time he had examined one of the things, and he inspected it \expndtw2 curiously. It was a near-perfect sphere, about eight inches in \expndtw4 diameter, with a four-inch hollow in the center. The globe \expndtw2 was made up of several concentric shells, tightly fitted, each apparently of a different metal. It was not seemingly heavier \expndtw4 than aluminum, although the outer shell was obviously of \expndtw3 tough steel.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Set it face down," Seevers told him. "Both halves. Give \expndtw5 it a quick little twist. The shells will come apart. Take out\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2318\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 the center shell-the hard, thin one between the soft pro\-\expndtw0 tecting shells."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "How do you know their purposes?" Paul growled as he \expndtw-1 followed instructions. The shells came apart easily.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Envelopes are to protect messages," snorted Seevers,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Paul sorted out the hemispheres, and found two mirror-\expndtw-1 polished cells of paper-thin tough metal. They bore no in\-\expndtw0 scription, either inside or out. He gave Seevers a puzzled \expndtw-6 frown,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Handle them carefully while they're out of the protectors. \expndtw4 They're already a little blurred..."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\tx3917\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "I don't see any message."\expndtw0\tab\sub\i f\cf0\lang2057\nosupersub\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "There's a small bottle of iron filings in that drawer by \expndtw-1 your knee. Sift them carefully over the outside of the shells. \expndtw-2 That powder isn't fine enough, really, but it's the best I could \expndtw0 do. Felger had some better stuff up at Princeton, before we \expndtw-2 all got out. This'business wasn't my discovery, incidentally."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Baffled, Paul found the iron filings and dusted the mirror-\expndtw0 shells with the powder. Delicate patterns appeared-latitu\-\expndtw1 dinal circles, etched in iron dust and laced here and there \expndtw-1 with diagonal lines. He gasped. It looked like the map of a \expndtw0 planet.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "I know what you're thinking," Seevers said. "That's what \expndtw-1 we thought too, at first. Then Felger came up with this very \expndtw-2 fine dust. Fine as they are, those lines are rows of pictograph \expndtw-5 symbols. You can make them out vaguely with a good reading \expndtw0 glass, even with this coarse stuff. It's magnetic printing- \expndtw-2 like two-dimensional wire-recording. Evidently, the animals \expndtw0 that printed it had either very powerful eyes, or a magnetic \expndtw-2 sense."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Anyone understand it?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Princeton staff was working on it when the world went \expndtw-3 crazy. They figured out enough to guess at what I've just told \expndtw-4 you. They found five different shell-messages among a dozen \expndtw-2 or so spheres. One of them was a sort of a key. A symbol \expndtw0 equated to a diagram of a carbon atom, Another symbol equated to a pi in binary numbers. Things like that-about \expndtw-3 five hundred symbols, in fact. Some we couldn't figure. Then \expndtw-4 they defined other symbols by what amounted to blank-filling \expndtw0 quizzes. Things like-'A star is...' and there would be the \expndtw-1 unknown symbol. We would try to decide whether it meant \expndtw1 'hot,' 'white,' 'huge,' and so forth."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "And you managed it?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2098\li2333\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx4834\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 "In part. The ruthless way in which the missiles were \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 opened destroyed some of the clarity The senders were guilty \expndtw-4 of their own brand of anthropomorphism. They projected their \expndtw-2 own psychology on us. They expected us to open the things \expndtw0 shell by shell, cautiously, and figure out the text before we \expndtw1 went further. Heh! What happens? Some machinist grabs \expndtw2 one, shakes it, weighs it, sticks it on a lathe, and-brrrrrr! \expndtw-2 Our curiosity is still rather apelike. Stick our arm in a gopher \expndtw2 hole to see if there's a rattlesnake inside."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 There was a long silence while Paul stood peering over the patterns on the shell. "Why haven't people heard about \expndtw0 this?" he asked quietly.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "Heard about it!" Seevers roared. "And how do you propose \expndtw1 to tell them about it?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Paul shook his head. It was easy to forget that Man had \expndtw-1 scurried away from his presses and his broadcasting stations \expndtw1 and his railroads, leaving his mechanical creatures to sleep \expndtw0 in their own rust while he fled like a bee-stung bear before \expndtw3 the strange terror.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "What, exactly, do the patterns say, Doctor?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi269\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "I've told you some of it-the evolutionary origin of the \expndtw0 neuroderm parasites. We also pieced together their reasons for launching the missiles across space-several thousand \expndtw1 years ago. Their sun was about to flare into a supernova. \expndtw-1 They worked out a theoretical space-drive, but they couldn't \expndtw-3 fuel it-needed some element that was scarce in their system. \expndtw1 They could get to their outer planet, but that wouldn't help \expndtw-1 much. So they just cultured up a batch of their parasite-ben\-\expndtw0 efactors, rolled them into these balls, and fired them like \expndtw1 charges of buckshot at various stars. Interception-course, \expndtw2 naturally. They meant to miss\i  \i0 just a little, so that the pro\-\expndtw1 jectiles would swing into long elliptical orbits around the \expndtw0 suns-close enough in to intersect the radiational 'life-belt' \expndtw1 and eventually cross paths with planets whose orbits were near-circular. Looks like they hit us on the first pass."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "You mean they weren't aiming at Earth in particular?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Evidently not. They couldn't know we were here. Not at \expndtw0 a range like that. Hundreds of light-years. They just took a \expndtw2 chance on several stars. Shipping off their pets was sort of \expndtw-2 a last-ditch stand against extinction-symbolic, to be sure- \expndtw0 but a noble gesture, as far as they were concerned. A giving away of part of their souls. Like a man writing his will and \expndtw-3 leaving his last worldly possession to some unknown species \expndtw1 beyond the stars. Imagine them standing there-watching \expndtw-2 the projectiles being fired out toward deep space. There goes\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2347\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li58\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 their inheritance, to as unknown heir, or perhaps to no one. The little creatures that brought them up from beasthood,"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-202\slmult0\tx2275\tx4397\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Seevers paused, staring\expndtw0\tab u\expndtw2 p at the sunlight beyond\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4 the high\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 basement window. He was talking to himself again, quietly: "You can see them turn away and silently go back... to wait \expndtw1 for their collapsing sun to reach the critical point, the deto\-\expndtw2 nating point. They've left their last mark-a dark and un\-\expndtw-1 certain benediction to the cosmos."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You're a fool, Seevers," Paul grunted suddenly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Seevers whirled, whitening. His hand darted out forget\-\expndtw1 fully toward the young man's arm, but he drew it back as \expndtw-1 Paul sidestepped.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "You actually regard this thing as desirable, don't you?" \expndtw0 Paul asked. "You can't see that you're under its effect. Why \expndtw-2 does it affect people that way? And you say I can't be objec\-\expndtw-3 tive."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li34\ri19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The professor smiled coldly. "I didn't say it's desirable. I \expndtw9 was simply pointing out that the beings who \i sent \i0 it it \expndtw-1 as desirable. They were making some unwarranted assump\-\expndtw-3 tions."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Maybe they just didn't care."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri24\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Of course they cared. Their fallacy was that we would \expndtw-1 open it as they would have done-cautiously. Perhaps they \expndtw0 couldn't see how a creature could be both brash and intelli\-\expndtw2 gent. They meant for us to read the warning on the shells \expndtw-1 before we went further."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6\fs21 "Warning...?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Seevers smiled bitterly. "Yes, warning. There was one \expndtw-4 group of oversized symbols on all the spheres. See that pattern \expndtw-3 on the top ring? It says, in effect-'Finder-creatures, you who \expndtw-1 destroy your own people-if you do this thing, then destroy \expndtw1 this container without penetrating deeper. If you are self-\expndtw-1 destroyers then the contents will only help to destroy you.'"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 There was a frigid silence.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri48\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "But somebody would have opened one anyway," Paul pro\-\expndtw-1 tested.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri43\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Seevers turned his bitter smile on the window. "You couldn't be more right. The senders just didn't foresee our \expndtw-1 monkey-minded species. If they saw Man digging out the \expndtw1 nuggets, braying over them, chortling over them, cracking \expndtw2 them like walnuts, then turning tail to run howling for the \expndtw0 forests-well, they'd think twice before they fired another round of their celestial buckshot."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sb96\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Doctor Seevers, what do you think will happen now? To \expndtw0 the world, I mean?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Seevers shrugged. "I saw a baby born yesterday-to a \expndtw-3 woman down the island. It was fully covered with neuroderm \expndtw-2 at birth. It has some new sensory equipment-small pores in \expndtw2 the fingertips, with taste buds and olfactory cells in them, \expndtw0 Also a nodule above each eye sensitive to infrared."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Paul groaned.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "It's not the first case. Those things are happening to \expndtw1 adults, too, but you have to have the condition for quite a \expndtw0 while. Brother Thomas has the finger pores already. Hasn't \expndtw-1 learned to use them yet, of course. He gets sensations from \expndtw-3 them, but the receptors aren't connected to olfactory and taste \expndtw-2 centers of the brain. They're still linked with the somesthetic \expndtw2 interpretive centers. He can touch various substances and \expndtw-4 get different perceptive combinations of heat, pain, cold, pres\-\expndtw0 sure, and so forth. He says vinegar feels ice-cold, quinine sharp-hot, cologne warm-velvet-prickly, and... he blushes when he touches a musky perfume."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Paul laughed, and the hollow sound startled him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li10\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "It may be several' generations before we know all that \expndtw-3 will happen," Seevers went on. "I've examined sections of rat \expndtw-1 brain and found the microorganisms. They may be working \expndtw1 at rerouting these new receptors to proper brain areas. Our \expndtw-2 grandchildren-if Man's still on Earth by then-can perhaps \expndtw1 taste-analyze substances by touch, qualitatively determine \expndtw2 the contents of a test tube by sticking a finger in it. See a \expndtw0 warm radiator in a dark room-by infrared. Perhaps there'll \expndtw-2 be some ultraviolet sensitization. My rats are sensitive to it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri24\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\fs21 Paul went to the rat cages and stared in at three gray \expndtw1 pelted animals that seemed larger than the others. They re\-\expndtw-1 treated against the back wall and watched him warily. They \expndtw-4 began squeaking and exchanging glances among themselves.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri29\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Those are third-generation hypers," Seevers told him. \expndtw0 "They've developed a simple language. Not intelligent by \expndtw2 human standards, but crafty. They've learned to use their \expndtw-1 sensory equipment. They know when I mean to feed them, and when I mean to take one out to kill and dissect. A slight \expndtw0 change in my emotional odor, I imagine. Learning's a big \expndtw-1 hurdle, youngster. A hyper with finger pores gets sensations \expndtw0 from them, but it takes a long time to attach meaning to the \expndtw1 various sensations-through learning. A baby gets visual \expndtw0 sensations from his untrained eyes-but the sensation is ut-\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2342\sl-202\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li58\ri38\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 terly without significance until he associates milk with white \expndtw0 mother with a face shape, and so forth."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "What will happen to the brain?" Paul breathed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi269\li29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Not too much, I imagine, I haven't observed much hap\-pening. The rats show an increase in intelligence, but not in brain size. The intellectual boost apparently comes from an \expndtw-3 ability to perceive things in terms of more senses. Ideas, con\-cepts, precepts-are made of memory collections of past sen\-sory experiences. An apple is red, fruity-smelling, sweet-acid \expndtw-1 flavored-that's your sensory idea of an apple. A blind man \expndtw-5 without a tongue couldn't form such a complete idea. A hyper, o\expndtw0 n the other hand, could add some new adjectives that you \expndtw-3 couldn't understand. The fully developed hyper-I'm not one \expndtw-4 yet-has more sensory tools with which to grasp ideas. When \expndtw0 he learns to use them, he'll be mentally more efficient. But \expndtw2 there's apparently a hitch.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "The parasite's instinctive goal is to insure the host's sur\-\expndtw2 vival. That's the substance of the warning. If Man has the \expndtw1 capacity to work together, then the parasites will help him \expndtw-1 shape his environment. If Man intends to keep fighting with \expndtw-2 his fellows, the parasite will help him do a better job of that, too. Help him destroy himself more efficiently."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Men have worked together-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri24\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "In small tribes," Seevers interrupted. "Yes, we have group \expndtw1 spirit. Ape-tribe spirit, not race spirit."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Paul moved restlessly toward the door. Seevers had turned \expndtw0 to watch him with a cool smirk.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Well, you're illuminated, youngster. Now what do you \expndtw-2 intend to do?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri48\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Paul shook his head to scatter the confusion of ideas. \expndtw0 "What can anyone do? Except run. To an island, perhaps."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri43\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Seevers hoisted a cynical eyebrow. "Intend taking the con\-\expndtw0 dition with you? Or will you try to stay nonhyper?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 'Take... are you crazy? I mean to stay healthy?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri43\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "That's what I thought. If you were objective about this, \expndtw-1 you'd give yourself the condition and get it over with. I did. \expndtw-6 You remind me of a monkey running away from \i a \i0 hypodermic \expndtw1 needle. The hypo has serum health-insurance in it, but the \expndtw0 needle looks sharp. The monkey chatters with fright."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri48\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Paul stalked angrily to the door, then paused. "There\super r\nosupersub s a girl upstairs, a dermie. Would you-"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri29\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Tell her all this? I always brief new hypers. It's one of \expndtw-2 my duties around this ecclesiastical leper ranch. She's on the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-202\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\ri86\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 verge of insanity, I suppose. They all are, before they get rid \expndtw0 of the idea that they're damned souls. What's she to you?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri86\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Paul strode out into the corridor without answering. He \expndtw-1 felt physically ill. He hated Seevers' smug bulldog face with \expndtw1 a violence that was unfamiliar to him. The man had given \expndtw-2 the plague to himself! So he said. But was it true? Was any of it true? To claim that the hallucinations were new sensory \expndtw-5 phenomena, to pose the plague as possibly desirable-Seevers \expndtw-4 had no patent on those ideas. Every dermie made such claims; \expndtw0 it was a symptom. Seevers had simply invented clever ra\-tionalizations to support his delusions, and Paul had been \expndtw-2 nearly taken in. Seevers was clever. \i Do you mean to take the \expndtw1 condition with you when you go? \i0 Wasn't that just another \expndtw-2 way of suggesting, "Why don't you allow me to touch you?" \expndtw0 Paul was shivering as he returned to the third-floor room to \expndtw-2 recoat himself with the pungent oil. Why not leave now? he \expndtw0 thought.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 But he spent the day wandering along the waterfront, \expndtw-4 stopping briefly at the docks to watch a crew of monks scram\-\expndtw1 bling over the scaffolding that surrounded the hulls of two \expndtw-3 small sea-going vessels. The monks were caulking split seams \expndtw3 and trotting along the platforms with buckets of tar and \expndtw-1 paint. Upon inquiry, Paul learned which of the vessels was \expndtw1 intended for his own use. And he put aside all thoughts of immediate departure.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li10\ri101\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 She was a fifty-footer, a slender craft with a weighted fin-keel that would cut too deep for bay navigation. Paul guessed \expndtw-4 that the colony wanted only a flat-bottomed vessel for hauling \expndtw-2 passengers and cargo across from the mainland. They would \expndtw2 have little use for the trim seaster with the lines of a baby \expndtw0 destroyer. Upon closer examination, he guessed that it had \expndtw-1 been a police boat, or Coast Guard craft. There was a gun-\expndtw-2 mounting on the forward deck, minus the gun. She was built \expndtw-1 for speed, and powered by diesels, and she could be provi\-\expndtw-2 sioned for a nice long cruise.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri110\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Paul went to scrounge among the warehouses and locate \expndtw-1 a stock of supplies. He met an occasional monk or nun, bat \expndtw-3 the gray-skinned monastics seemed only desirous of avoiding \expndtw-2 him. The dermie desire was keyed principally, by smell, and \expndtw-1 the deodorant oil helped preserve him from their affections. \expndtw-3 Once he was approached by a wild-eyed layman who startled \expndtw-1 him amidst a heap of warehouse crates. The dermie was al\-\expndtw-3 most upon him before Paul heard the footfall. Caught without\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li62\sl-197\slmult0\tx2510\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 an escape route, and assailed\expndtw0\tab\expndtw1 by startled terror, he shattered\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li62\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 the man's arm with a shotgun blast, then fled from the ware\-house to escape the dermie's screams.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li53\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Choking with shame, he found a dermie monk and sent \expndtw-1 him to care for the wounded creature. Paul had shot at other \expndtw0 plague victims when there was no escape, but never with \expndtw1 intent to kill. The man's life had been spared only by hasty \expndtw-4 aim.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "It was self-defense\sub t\nosupersub " he reminded himself.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 But defense against what? Against the inevitable?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 He hurried back to the hospital and found Mendelhaus \expndtw-2 outside the small chapel. ''I better not wait for your boat," he \expndtw0 told the priest. "I just shot one of your people. I better leave before it happens again."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Mendelhaus' thin lips tightened, "You shot-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Didn't kill him," Paul explained hastily. "Broke his arm. \expndtw0 One of the brothers is bringing him over. I'm sorry, Father, \expndtw-1 but he jumped me."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The priest glanced aside silently, apparently wrestling against anger, "I'm glad you told me," he said quietly. "I \expndtw-2 suppose you couldn't help it. But why did you leave the hos\-\expndtw-4 pital? You're safe here. The yacht will be provisioned for you. \expndtw0 I suggest you remain in your room until it's ready. I won't vouch for your safety any farther than the building." There \expndtw-4 was a tone of command in his voice, and Paul nodded slowly. \expndtw0 He started away.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "The young lady's been asking for you," the priest called \expndtw0 after him.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Paul stopped. "How is she?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Over the crisis, I think. Infection's down. Nervous con\-\expndtw-1 dition not so good. Deep depression. Sometimes she goes a \expndtw-2 little hysterical." He paused, then lowered his voice, "You're \expndtw0 at the focus of it, young man. Sometimes she gets the idea \expndtw1 that she touched you, and then sometimes she raves about \expndtw-2 how she wouldn't do it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Paul whirled angrily, forming a protest, but the priest \expndtw-2 continued: "Seevers talked to her, and then a psychologist- \expndtw-1 one of oar sisters. It seemed to help some. She's asleep now, \expndtw-5 I don't know how much of Seevers' talk she understood, how\-\expndtw-4 ever. She's dared-combined effects of pain, shock, infection, \expndtw-1 guilt feelings, fright, hysteria-and some other things, Mor\-\expndtw1 phine doesn't make her mind any clearer. Neither does the fact that she thinks you're avoiding her."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2088\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "It's the plague I'm avoiding!" Paul snapped. "Not her." \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx4061\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Mendelhaus chuckled mirthlessly. "You're talking to me, \expndtw6 aren't you?" He turned and entered the chapel through a \expndtw5 swinging door. As the door fanned back and forth, Paul \expndtw4 caught a glimpse of a candlelit altar and a stark wooden \expndtw-1 crucifix, and a sea of monk-robes flowing over the pews, wait\-\expndtw4 ing for the celebrant priest to enter the sanctuary and begin the Sacrifice of the Mass. He realized vaguely that it was \expndtw1 Sunday.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Paul wandered back to the main corridor and found him\-\expndtw2 self drifting toward Willie's room. The door was ajar, and he stopped short lest she see him. But after a moment he inched \expndtw5 forward until he caught a glimpse of her dark mass of hair \expndtw3 unfurled across the pillow. One of the sisters had combed it \expndtw5 for her, and it spread in dark waves, gleaming in the can\-\expndtw3 dlelight. She was still asleep. The candle startled him for an \expndtw5 instant-suggesting a deathbed and the sacrament of the \expndtw2 dying. But a dogeared magazine lay beneath it; someone had \expndtw4 been reading to her.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li19\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 He stood in the doorway, watching the slow rise of her breathing. Fresh, young, shapely-even in the crude cotton \expndtw2 gown they had given her, even beneath the blue-white pallor \expndtw-1 of her skin-soon to become gray as a cloudy sky in a wintery \expndtw1 twilight. Her lips moved slightly, and he backed a step away. \expndtw4 They paused, parted moistly, showing thin white teeth. Her \expndtw0 delicately carved face was thrown back slightly on the pillow. \expndtw4 There was a sudden tightening of her jaw.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li5\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 A weirdly pitched voice floated unexpectedly from down \expndtw4 the hall, echoing the semisinging of Gregorian chant: \i "As-\expndtw1 perges me, Domine, hyssopo, et mundabor..." \i0 The priest was \expndtw2 beginning Mass.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 As the sound came, the girl's hands clenched into rigid \expndtw2 fists beneath the sheet. Her eyes flared open to stare <wildly at the ceiling. Clutching the bedclothes, she pressed the fists \expndtw0 up against her face and cried out: "No! Noooo! God, I won't!"\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Paul backed out of sight and pressed himself against the \expndtw-1 wall. A knot of desolation tightened in his stomach. He looked \expndtw1 around nervously. A nun, hearing the outcry, came scurrying \expndtw5 down the hall, murmuring anxiously to herself, A plump \expndtw0 mother hen in a dozen yards of starched white cloth. She gave \expndtw4 him a quick challenging glance and waddled inside.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Child, my child, what's wrong! Nightmares again?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri58\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 He heard Willie breathe a nervous moan of relief. Then \expndtw3 her voice, weakly-"They . . . they made me . . . touch . . . \expndtw1 Ooo, God! I want to cut off my hands!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Paul fled, leaving the nun's sympathetic reassurance to fade into a murmur behind him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He spent the rest of the day and the night in his room. On the following day, Mendelhaus came with word that the boat \expndtw-1 was not yet ready. They needed \i to \i0 finish caulking and stock \expndtw0 it with provisions. But the priest assured him that it should \expndtw-3 be afloat within twenty-four hours, Paal omild not bring him\-\expndtw1 self to ask about the girl.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 A monk brought his food-unopened cans, still steaming \expndtw0 from the sterilizer, and on a covered tray. The monk wore \expndtw-2 gloves and mask, and he had oiled his own skin. There were \expndtw-1 moments when Paul felt as if he were the diseased and con\-tagious patient from whom the others protected themselves. \expndtw0 Like Omar, he thought, wondering-"which is the Potter, \expndtw1 pray, and which the Pot?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 Was Man, as Seevers implied, a terrorized ape-tribe \expndtw0 fleeing illogically from the gray hands that only wanted to \expndtw-2 offer a blessing? How narrow was the line dividing blessing \expndtw-3 from curse, god from demon! The-parasites came in a devil's \expndtw-1 mask, the mask of disease, "Diseases have often killed me," said Man. "All disease is therefore evil." But was that nec\-\expndtw-3 essarily true? Fire had often killed Man's club-bearing ances\-\expndtw1 tors, but later came to serve him. Even diseases had been \expndtw-1 used to good advantage-artificially induced typhoid and \expndtw0 malaria to fight venereal infections.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 But the gray skin ... taste buds in the fingertips.. . alien microorganisms tampering with the nerves and the brain. \expndtw-2 Such concepts caused his scalp to bristle. Man--made over \expndtw0 to suit the tastes of a bunch of supposedly beneficent para\-\expndtw-1 sites-was he still Man, or something else? Little bacterio\-\expndtw-2 logical farmers imbedded in the skin, raising a crop of nerve \expndtw-1 cells-eat one, plant two, sow an olfactor in a new field, \expndtw0 reshuffle the feeder-fibers to the brain,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri62\sb202\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Monday brought a cold rain and stiff wind from the Gulf. \expndtw2 He watched the water swirling through littered gutters in \expndtw-1 the street. Sitting in the window, he watched the gloom and \expndtw-3 waited, praying that the storm would not delay his departure. Mendelhaus smiled politely through his doorway once. "Wil\-\expndtw-1 lie's ankle seems healing nicely," he said. "Swelling's gone \expndtw-3 down so much we had to change caste. If only she would-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Thanks for the free report, Padre," Paul growled irrita\-\expndtw-8 bly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2098\li2333\ri1536\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The priest shrugged and went away. \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 It was still raining when the sky darkened with evening. \expndtw-2 The monastic dock-crew had certainly been unable to finish. \expndtw-1 Tomorrow... perhaps.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 After nightfall, he lit a candle and lay awake watching \expndtw1 its unflickering yellow tongue until drowsiness lolled his \expndtw0 head aside. He snuffed it out and went to bed.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Dreams assailed him, tormented him, stroked him with \expndtw3 dark hands while he lay back, submitting freely. Small \expndtw1 hands, soft, cool, tender-touching his forehead and his \expndtw-2 cheeks, while a voice whispered caresses.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He awoke suddenly to blackness. The feel of the dream-hands was still on his face. What had aroused him? A sound \expndtw0 in the hall, a creaking hinge? The darkness was impenetra\-\expndtw1 ble. The rain had stopped-perhaps its cessation had dis\-\expndtw-1 turbed him. He felt curiously tense as he lay listening to the \expndtw4 humid, musty corridors. A... faint... rustle... and...\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi221\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\i Breathing!. The sound of soft breathing was in the room \expndtw6 with him!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 He let out a hoarse shriek that shattered the unearthly \expndtw-3 silence. A high-pitched scream of fright answered him! Prom \expndtw-5 a few feet away in the room. He groped toward it and fumbled \expndtw0 against a bare wall. He roared curses, and tried to find first matches, then the shotgun. At last he found the gun, aimed at nothing across the room, and jerked the trigger. The ex\-\expndtw-1 plosion deafened him. The window shattered, and a sift of \expndtw1 plaster rustled to the floor.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The brief flash had illuminated the room. It was empty. \expndtw-3 He stood frozen. Had he imagined it all? But no, the visitor's \expndtw1 startled scream had been real enough.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 A cool draft fanned his face. The door was open. Had he forgotten to lock it again? A tumult of sound was beginning \expndtw-4 to arise from the lower floors. His shot had aroused the sleep\-\expndtw-1 ers. But there was a closer sound-sobbing in the corridor, \expndtw1 and an irregular creaking noise.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 At last he found a match and rushed to the door. But the \expndtw-2 tiny flame revealed nothing within its limited aura. He heard \expndtw1 a doorknob rattle in the distance; his visitor was escaping via the outside stairway. He thought of pursuit and ven\-\expndtw0 geance. But instead, he rushed to the washbasin and began scrubbing himself thoroughly with harsh brown soap. Had \expndtw-2 his visitor touched him-or had the hands been only dream-\expndtw0 stuff? He was frightened and sickened.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Voices were filling the corridor. The light of several can-\expndtw2 dles was advancing toward his doorway. He turned to see\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 monks' faces peering anxiously inside. Father Mendelhaus shouldered his way through the others, glanced \i at \i0 the win\-\expndtw1 dow, the wall, then at Paul.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "What-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li43\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "Safety, eh?" Paul hissed. "Well, I had a prowler! A woman! \expndtw0 I think I've been touched."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The priest turned and spoke to a monk. "Go to the stairway \expndtw1 and call for the Mother Superior. Ask her to make an im\-\expndtw0 mediate inspection of the sisters' quarters. If any nuns have \expndtw-2 been out of their rooms-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 A shrill voice called from down the hallway: "Father, \expndtw-1 Father! The girl with the injured ankle! She's not in her bed! \expndtw-4 She's gone!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Willie!" Paul gasped.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 A small nun with a candle scurried up and panted to re\-\expndtw-2 cover her breath for a moment. "She's gone, Father. I was on \expndtw0 night duty. I heard the shot, and I went to see if it disturbed \expndtw1 her. She wasn't there!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The priest grumbled incredulously. "How could she get \expndtw1 out? She can't walk with that cast."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Crutches, Father. We told her she could get up in a few \expndtw2 days. While she was still irrational, she kept saying they \expndtw0 were going to amputate her leg. We brought the crutches in \expndtw3 to prove she'd be up soon. It's my fault, Father. I should \expndtw-6 have-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Never mind! Search the building for her."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Paul dried his wet skin and faced the priest angrily. "What \expndtw-1 can I do to disinfect myself?" he demanded.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li14\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Mendelhaus called out into the hallway where a crowd \expndtw-2 had gathered. "Someone please get Doctor Seevers."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I'm here, preacher," grunted the scientist. The monastics \expndtw0 parted ranks to make way for his short chubby body. He grinned amusedly at Paul. "So, you decided to make your \expndtw-4 home here after all, eh?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Paul croaked an insult at him. "Have you got any effec\-\expndtw-6 tive-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Disinfectants? Afraid not. Nitric acid will do the trick on one or two local spots. Where were you touched?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I don't know. I was asleep."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Seevers' grin widened. "Well, you can't take a bath in \expndtw-1 nitric acid. We'll try something else, but I doubt if it'll work for a direct touch."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "That oil-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2093\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Uh-uh! That'll do for" exposure-weakened parasites you \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 might pick up by handling an object that's been touched. But \expndtw4 with skin-to-skin contact, the bugs're pretty stout little ras\-\expndtw3 cals. Come on downstairs, though, we'll make a pass at it,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li38\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Paul followed him quickly down the corridor. Behind him, \expndtw3 a soft voice was murmuring: "I just can't understand why \expndtw2 nonhypers are so..." Mendelhaus said something to Seevers, \expndtw4 blotting out the voice. Paul chafed at the thought that they \expndtw2 might consider him cowardly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 But with the herds fleeing northward, cowardice was the social norm. And after a year's flight, Paul had accepted the norm as the only possible way to fight.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Seevers was emptying chemicals into a tub of water in the \expndtw4 basement when a monk hurried in to tug at Mendelhaus' \expndtw6 sleeve. "Father, the sisters report that the girl's not in the \expndtw2 building."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "What? Well, she can't be far! Search the grounds. If she's \expndtw4 not there, try the adjoining blocks."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Paul stopped unbuttoning his shirt. Willie had said some \expndtw2 mournful things about what she would rather do than submit \expndtw5 to the craving. And her startled scream when he had cried \expndtw1 out in the darkness-the scream of someone suddenly awak\-\expndtw2 ening to reality-from a daze-world.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 The monk left the room. Seevers sloshed more chemicals \expndtw5 into the tub. Paul could hear the wind whipping about the \expndtw3 basement windows and the growl of an angry surf not so far \expndtw6 away. Paul rebuttoned his shirt.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Which way's the ocean?" he asked suddenly. He backed toward the door.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 "No, you fool!" roared Seevers. "You're not going to-\i get \expndtw3 him, \i0 preacher!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Paul sidestepped as the priest grabbed for him. He darted \expndtw5 outside and began running for the stairs. Mendelhaus bel\-\expndtw1 lowed for him to stop.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Not me!" Paul called back angrily. "Willie!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Moments later, he was racing across the sodden lawn and \expndtw3 into the street. He stopped on the corner to get his bearings. \expndtw4 The wind brought the sound of the surf with it. He began \expndtw6 running east and calling her name into the night.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 The rain had ceased, but the pavement was wet and water \expndtw1 gurgled in the gutters. Occasionally the moon peered through \expndtw4 the thinning veil of clouds, but its light failed to furnish a \expndtw3 view of the street ahead. After a minute's running, he found \expndtw5 himself standing on the seawall. The breakers thundered a \expndtw7 stone's throw across the sand. For a moment they became\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li72\sl-197\slmult0\tx4022\cf1\lang1033 visible under the coy moon, then vanished again\tab\expndtw-6 in blackness.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li67\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 He had not seen her.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2 "Willie!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Only the breakers' growl responded. And a glimmer of \expndtw1 phosphorescence from the waves,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li48\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\i "Willie!" \i0 He slipped down from the seawall and began \expndtw3 feeling along the jagged rocks that lay beneath it. She could \expndtw4 not have gotten down without faffing. Then he remembered \expndtw6 a rickety flight of steps just to the north, and he trotted \expndtw3 quickly toward it.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The moon came out suddenly. He saw her, and stopped. \expndtw4 She was sitting motionless on the bottom step, holding her face in her hands. The crutches were stacked neatly against \expndtw2 the handrail. Ten yards across the sand slope lay the hungry, devouring surf. Paul approached her slowly. The moon went \expndtw5 out again. His feet sucked at the rain-soaked sand.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li38\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 He stopped by the handrail, peering at her motionless \expndtw0 shadow. "Willie?"\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li34\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 A low moan, then a long silence. "I did it, Paul," she mut-\expndtw3 tered miserably. "It was like a dream at first, but then... you \expndtw9 shouted.,. and..."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li34\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 He crouched in front of her, sitting on his heels. Then he took her wrists firmly and tugged her hands from her face.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw8 "Don't,,,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li10\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx3077\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 He pulled her close and kissed her. Her mouth was fright\-\line\expndtw1 ened. Then he lifted her-being cautious of the now-sodden\line\expndtw4 cast. He climbed the steps and started back to the hospital.\line\expndtw5 Willie, dazed and weary and still uncomprehending, fell\line\expndtw3 asleep in his arms. Her hair blew about his face in the wind.\line\expndtw5 It smelled warm and alive. He wondered what sensation it\line\expndtw3 would produce to the finger-pore receptors. "Wait and see,"\line\expndtw2 he said to himself.\expndtw0\tab\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The priest met him with a growing grin when he brought \expndtw5 her into the candlelit corridor. "Shall we forget the boat, \expndtw-4 son?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi168\li77\ri384\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Paul paused. "No... I'd like to borrow it anyway."   \expndtw3  Mendelhaus looked puzzled,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Seevers snorted at him: "Preacher, don't you know any reasons for traveling besides running away?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Paul carried her back to her room. He meant to have a \expndtw2 long talk when she awoke. About an island-until the world \expndtw0 sobered up.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\cf1\lang1033\fs77 5\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sb394\cf1\lang1033\fs33 CIVILIZATION DESTROYED\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\ri10\sb322\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Even if humanity survives, the civilization it developed over the last ten thousand years may not, in a "Catastrophe of the \expndtw3 Fifth Class."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 We are, for instance, beginning to suspect that the Sun is \expndtw4 not quite as reliable a luminary as we have been taking for \expndtw2 granted. Suppose the Sun undergoes a small hiccup, nothing \expndtw0 of importance to itself, or very noticeable from out in space- \expndtw3 yet enough to introduce sufficient change on Earth to break \expndtw4 down humanity's fine-tuned system of society ("Last Night \expndtw0 of Summer" by Alfred Coppel).\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Or humanity can do it to itself. Wars have been endemic since the beginning of civilization, certainly, and they have \expndtw2 been growing steadily more deadly as technology advances. With the coming of the nuclear bomb, the true Armageddon \expndtw3 has finally become possible. ("The Store of the Worlds" by \expndtw0 Robert Sheckley).\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Consider, though, that civilization is the product of hu\-manity's three-pound brain, the most magnificently orga\-\expndtw0 nized bit of matter we have \i any \i0 knowledge of. What if some\-\expndtw4 thing goes wrong with it-whether other-induced or self-\expndtw0 induced ("How It Was When the Past Went Away" by Robert \expndtw1 Silverberg)?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 And finally, what of the sword of Damocles that truly \expndtw3 hangs suspended over humanity; the one catastrophe that is \expndtw6 visible, perhaps even inevitable, and is eating away at us \expndtw2 now-overpopulation. What if we continue to increase our numbers and if the mere weight of flesh and blood breaks us down ("Shark Ship" by C. M. Kornbluth)?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li1200\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-8\fs32 Last Night of Summer\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\sb187\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs23 ALFRED COPPEL\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\sb470\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 There were fires burning in the city. With the house dark- \expndtw-4 the power station was deserted by this time-Tom Henderson could see the fires clearly. They reflected like bonfires against \expndtw-1 the pall of smoke,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 He sat in the dark, smoking and listening to the reedy \expndtw-2 voice of the announcer that came out of the battery-powered \expndtw-1 portable radio,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "-mean temperatures are rising to abnormal heights all \expndtw-1 over the world. Paris reports a high yesterday of 110 degrees \expndtw1 .,. Naples was 115... astronomers predict... the government requests that the civil population remain calm. Martial law \expndtw-2 has been declared in Los Angeles-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The voice was faint. The batteries were low. Not that it \expndtw-1 mattered. \i With all our bickering, \i0 Henderson thought, \i this is the finish. And we haven't got what it takes to face it. \i0 It was \expndtw-2 so simple, really. No war of the worlds, no collision with \expndtw2 another planet. A slight rise in temperature. Just that. The \expndtw-2 astronomers had discovered it first, of course, And,there had \expndtw0 been reassuring statements to the press. The rise in temper-\expndtw-2 ature would be small. Ten percent give or take a few million \expndtw-3 degrees. They spoke of surface-tensions, internal stresses and \expndtw-1 used all the astrophysical terms not one man in two million \expndtw3 had ever taken the trouble to understand. And what they said to the world was that on the last night of summer it \expndtw-5 would die.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx2731\cf1\lang1033\fs21 It would be gradual at first. Temperatures had been high\line\expndtw-1 all summer. Then on September\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-2 22nd, there would be a sud-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri53\sb10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 den surge of heat from that familiar red ball in the sky. The surface temperature of the earth would be raised to 200\'b0 centigrade for seventeen hours. Then everything would be \expndtw-1 back to normal.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Henderson grinned vacuously at the empty air. \i Back to \expndtw0 normal. \i0 The seas, which would have boiled away, would con\-dense and fall as hot rain for a month or so, flooding the land, \expndtw4 washing away all traces of man's occupation-those that \expndtw5 hadn't burned. And in two months, the temperature would \expndtw3 be down to where a man could walk on the surface without \expndtw2 protective clothing.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Only there would not be very many men left. There would \expndtw4 only be the lucky ones with the talismans of survivals, the \expndtw3 metal disks that gave access to the Burrows. Out of a pop\-ulation of two billions, less than a million would survive.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 The announcer sounded bone-weary. \i He should, \i0 Hender\-\expndtw-2 son thought. \i He's been on the air for ten hours or more without \expndtw3 relief. We all do what we can. But it isn't much,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i "\i0 -no more applicants are being taken for the Burrows-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 I should hope not, Henderson thought. There had been so \expndtw4 little time. Three months. That they had been able to build the ten Burrows was tribute enough. But then money hadn't \expndtw3 mattered, had it? He had to keep reminding himself that the \expndtw4 old values didn't apply. Not money, or materials, or even labor-that stand-by of commerce. Only time. And there \expndtw5 hadn't been any of that.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "-population of Las Vegas has been evacuated into sev\-\expndtw5 eral mines in the area-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\i Nice try, but it wouldn't work, \i0 Henderson thought lan\-\expndtw4 guidly. If the heat didn't kill, the overcrowding would. And \expndtw1 if that failed, then the floods would succeed. And of course there would be earthquakes. \i We can't accept catastrophe on \expndtw0 this scale, \i0 he told himself. \i We aren't equipped mentally for it any better than toe are physically. \i0 The only thing a man could \expndtw4 understand were his own problems. And this last night of summer made them seem petty, small, as though they were \expndtw3 being viewed through the wrong end of a telescope.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li5\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\i I'm sorry for the girls, \i0 he thought. Lorrie and Pam. They \expndtw4 should have had a chance to grow up. He felt a tightness in \expndtw5 his throat as he thought of his daughters. Eight and ten are \expndtw3 sad ages to die.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 But he hadn't thought of them before, why should the end \expndtw4 of the world make it any different? He had left them and \expndtw2 Laura, too. For what? For Kay and money and a kind of life that would go out in a bright flash with the coming of dawn. \expndtw-1 They all danced their minuscule ballet on the rim of the world \expndtw3 while he sat, drained of purpose or feeling, watching them \expndtw4 through that reversed telescope.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2342\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li53\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 He wondered where Kay was now. All over the city there \expndtw3 were Star Parties going on. The sky the limit tonight! Any\-\expndtw2 thing you want. Tomorrow-\i bang! \i0 Nothing denied, nothing \expndtw3 forbidden. This is the last night of the world, kiddo!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\li29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Kay had dressed-if that was the word-and gone out at \expndtw3 seven. "I'm not going to sit here and just wait!" He remem\-\expndtw5 bered the hysteria in her voice, the drugged stupor in her \expndtw0 eyes. And then Trina and those others coming in, some drunk, \expndtw4 others merely giddy with terror. Trina wrapped in her mink \expndtw0 coat, and dancing around the room singing in a shrill, cracked \expndtw1 voice. And the other girl-Henderson never could remember \expndtw4 her name, but he'd remember her now for all the time there \expndtw0 was left-naked except for her jewels. Diamonds, rubies, em\-\expndtw10 eralds-all glittering sparkling in the last rays of the \expndtw2 swollen sun. And the tears streamed down her cheeks as she \expndtw3 begged him to make love to her-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri24\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw7 It was'a nightmare. But it was real. The red sun that \expndtw2 slipped into the Pacific was real. The fires and looting in the \expndtw-1 city were not dreams. This was the way the world was ending. \expndtw5 Star Parties and murder in the streets, and women dressed \expndtw4 in gems, and tears-a million gallons of tears.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Outside there was the squeal of tires and a crash, then the, \expndtw1 tinkling of broken glass and silence. A shot came from down \expndtw6 the street. There was a cry that was part laughter and part \expndtw1 scream,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri48\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\i I'm without purpose, \i0 Henderson thought. \i I\i0  \i sit and watch \expndtw2 and wait for nothing. \i0 And the radio's voice grew fainter still.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri34\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "-those in the Burrows will survive... in mines and eaves ... geologists promise a forty percent survival... behind the \expndtw3 iron curtain-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri43\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Behind the iron curtain, surely nothing. Or perhaps it \expndtw2 would be instantaneous, not sweeping across the world with \expndtw3 dawn. Of course, it would be instantaneous. The sun would \expndtw1 swell-oh, so slightly-and eight minutes later, rivers, lakes, streams, the oceans-everything wet-would boil up into the \expndtw5 sky'...\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri48\sb206\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw7 From the street came a rasping repetitive cry. Not a \expndtw4 woman. A man. He was burning. A street gang had soaked \expndtw3 him with gasoline and touched him with a match. They fol\-\expndtw1 lowed him shrieking: \i preview, preview! \i0 Henderson watched \expndtw8 him through the window as he ran with that \i uuuh uuuh \expndtw6 uuuh \i0 noise seemingly ripped from his throat. He vanished\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-206\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li125\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 around the corner of the next house, closely pursued by his tormentors,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li115\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\i I\i0  \i hope the girls and Laura are safe, \i0 Henderson thought. And then he almost laughed aloud. Safe. What was safety \expndtw2 now? \i Maybe, \i0 he thought, \i I\i0  \i should have gone with Kay. \i0 Was \expndtw4 there anything left he wanted to do that he had never done? Kill? Rape? Any sensation left untasted? The night before, \expndtw3 at the Gilmans', there had been a ludicrous Black Mass full \expndtw5 of horror and asininity: pretty Louise Gilman taking the \expndtw4 guests one after another amid the broken china and sterling \expndtw6 silver on the dining table while her husband lay half-dead \expndtw2 of self-administered morphine.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li110\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\i Our set, \i0 Henderson thought. \i Brokers, bankers, people who \expndtw2 matter. \i0 God, it was bad enough to die. But to die without \expndtw1 dignity was worse yet. And to die without purpose was abys\-\expndtw0 mal.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li115\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Someone was banging at the door, scratching at it, shriek\-\expndtw4 ing. He sat still.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li355\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033 "Tom-Tom-it's Kay! Let me in, for God's sake!"\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\li91\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Maybe it was Kay. Maybe it was and he should let her \expndtw3 stay outside. \i I\i0  \i should keep what shreds of dignity I have, \i0 he \expndtw2 thought, \i and die alone, at least. \i0 How would it have been to face this thing with Laura? Any different? Or was there any\-thing to choose? \i I\i0  \i married Laura, \i0 he thought. \i And I married \expndtw1 Kay, too. \i0 It was easy. If a man could get a divorce every two \expndtw0 years, say, and he lived to be sixty-five, say-then how many \expndtw2 women could he marry? And if you assumed there were a \expndtw3 billion women in the world, what percentage would it be?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li355\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\i "Let me in, Tom, damn you! I know you're there!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li96\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i Eight and ten isn't very old, \i0 he thought. \i Not very old, really. \expndtw2\i0 They might have been wonderful women\expndtw13 ...\expndtw2  to lie amid the \expndtw6 crockery and cohabit like animals while the sun got ready \expndtw1 to blow up?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li341\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw8 "Tom...!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li91\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 He shook his head sharply and snapped off the radio. The \expndtw1 fires in the city were brighter and bigger. Not sunfires, those. \expndtw3 Someone had set them. He got up and went to the door. He \expndtw0 opened it. Kay stumbled in, sobbing. "Shut the door, oh, God, \expndtw4 shut it!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 He stood looking at her torn clothes-what there was of\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 them-and her hands. They were sticky red with blood. He\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 felt no horror, no curiosity. He experienced nothing but a\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 dead feeling of loss. \i I\i0  \i never loved her, \i0 he thought suddenly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri4109\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\i That's why.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2419\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li307\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 She reeked of liquor and her lipstick was smeared all over\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li67\sl-197\slmult0\tx182\cf1\lang1033\fs21 h\expndtw-2 er face. "I gave him what he wanted." she said shrilly. "The\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 filthy swine coming to mix with the dead ones and then run, b\expndtw-4 ack to the Burrow-" Suddenly she laughed. "Look, Tom- lo\expndtw-8 ok!" She held out one bloody hand. Two disks gleamed dully in\expndtw-4  her palm.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi216\li77\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "We're safe, safe-" She said it again and again, bending o\expndtw0 ver the disks and crooning to them.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li58\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Henderson stood in the dim hallway, slowly letting his \expndtw-1 mind understand what he was seeing. Kay had killed a man f\expndtw0 or those tickets into the Burrow.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Give them to me," he said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-197\li283\ri1824\sl-197\slmult0\tx283\tab\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 She snatched them away. "No."\line\expndtw0 "I want them, Kay."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li48\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "No, nononono-" She thrust, them into the torn bosom of her dress. "I came back. I came back for you. That's true, isn't \expndtw-7 it?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li38\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Yes," Henderson said. And it was also true that she \expndtw-4 couldn't have hoped to reach a Burrow alone. She would need \expndtw1 a car and. a man with a gun. "I understand, Kay," he said \expndtw0 softly, hating her.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "If I gave them to you, you'd take Laura," she said. \expndtw-6 "Wouldn't you? \i Wouldn't you? \i0 Oh, I know you, Tom, I know \expndtw-4 you so well. You'd never gotten free of her or those two sniv\-\expndtw-2 eling brats of yours-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li29\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 He struck her sharply across the face, surprised at the \expndtw1 rage that shook him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li24\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Don't do that again," she said, glaring hatred at him. "I \expndtw-4 need you right now but you need me more. You don't know \expndtw-1 where the Burrow is. I do."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 It was true, of course. The entrances to the Burrows would \expndtw0 have to be secret, known only to those chosen to survive. \expndtw-2 Mobs would storm them otherwise. And Kay had found out \expndtw-1 from the man-that man who had paid with his life for for\-\expndtw1 getting that there were only potential survivors now and \expndtw-2 animals.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "All right, Kay," Henderson said. "Ill make a bargain with \expndtw-8 you."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "What?" she asked suspiciously.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I'll tell you in the car. Get ready. Take light things." He \expndtw-2 went into the bedroom and took his Luger from the bedside table drawer. Kay was busy stuffing her jewelry into a hand\-\expndtw-1 bag. "Come on," he said. "That's enough. Plenty. There isn't \expndtw-2 much time."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li120\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 They went down into the garage and got into the car, "Roll \expndtw-2 up the windows," he said. "And lock the doors,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li360\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "All right."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He started the engine and backed onto the street,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li365\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "What's the bargain?" Kay asked.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li360\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Later," \i he \i0 said.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li110\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He put the car in gear and started down out of the resi\-\expndtw-1 dential district, going through the winding, wooded drives. There were dark shapes running in the shadows. A man ap\-\expndtw2 peared in the headlights' beam and Henderson swerved \expndtw-4 swiftly by him. He heard shots behind. "Keep down," he said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li355\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Where are we going? This isn't the way."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li360\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "I'm taking the girls with me," he said. "With us."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "They won't let them in."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li355\sb10\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "We can try."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li350\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "You fool, Tom! They won't let them in, I say!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li110\ri19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He stopped the car and twisted around to look at her. "Would you rather try to make it on foot?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li106\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Her face grew ugly with a renaissance of fear. She could \expndtw-1 see her escape misting away. "All right. But I tell you they \expndtw-3 won't let them in. No one gets into a Burrow without a disk."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li101\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "We can try." He started the car again, driving fast along \expndtw2 the littered streets toward Laura's apartment.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li101\ri14\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 At several points the street was blocked with burning de\-\expndtw-2 bris, and once a gang of men and women almost surrounded \expndtw0 them, throwing rocks and bits of wreckage at the car as he backed it around.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li346\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You'll get us both killed for nothing," Kay said wildly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li96\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Tom Henderson looked at his wife and felt sick for the \expndtw0 wasted years. "We'll be all right," he said.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li96\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He stopped the car in front of Laura's. There were two \expndtw-1 overturned cars on the sidewalk. He unlocked the door and \expndtw-2 got out, taking the keys with him. "I won't be long," he said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li86\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Say good-by to Laura for me," Kay said, her eyes glit\-\expndtw1 tering.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li336\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Yes," he said. "I will."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 A shadow moved menacingly out of the dark doorway.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5\fs21 Without hesitation, Tom Henderson lifted the Luger and\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\fs21 fired. The man fell and did not move. \i I've just killed a man,\cf0\lang2057\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Henderson thought. And then: \i But what does it matter on the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri3235\sl-197\slmult0\qr\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i\fs21 last night of summer?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li82\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\i\fs21 He \i0 shot away the lock and walked swiftly up the dark \expndtw-1 hallway, up the two flights of stairs he remembered so well.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2414\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li67\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 At Laura's door he knocked. There was movement within. \expndtw-4 The door opened slowly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li302\ri1152\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I've come for the girls," he said. \expndtw-2 Laura stepped back. "Come in," she said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li62\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The scent she wore began to prod memories. His eyes felt \expndtw-4 unaccountably hot and wet. "There's very little time," he said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li58\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Laura's hand was on his in the dark. "You can get them \expndtw0 into a Burrow?" she asked. And then faintly. "I put them to \expndtw-1 bed. I didn't know what else to do."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He couldn't see her, but he knew how she would look: the \expndtw-5 close-cropped sandy hair; the eyes the color of rich chocolates; \expndtw1 her so familiar body supple and warm under the wrapper; \expndtw2 the smell and taste of her. It didn't matter now, nothing \expndtw1 mattered on this last crazy night of the world.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Get them," he said, "Quickly,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\fs21 She did as was told. \i Pam \i0 and Lorrie-he could hear \expndtw-2 them complaining softly about being awakened in the middle \expndtw0 of the night-soft little bodies, with the musty-childish odor of sleep and safety. Then Laura was kneeling, holding them \expndtw-1 against her, each in turn. And he knew the tears must be wet \expndtw-2 on her cheeks. He thought: say \i good-by and make it quick. \expndtw-4 Kiss your children good-by and watch them go out while you \expndtw0 remain alone in the dark that isn't ever going to end. Ah, \expndtw-4 Laura. Laura\i0 -\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri96\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Take them quickly, Tom," Laura said. And then she pressed herself against him just for an instant. "I love you, \expndtw-2 Tom. I never stopped."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri110\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He lifted Pam into his arms and took Lome's hand. He didn't trust himself to speak.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li24\ri110\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Good-by, Tom," Laura said, and closed the door behind \expndtw-5 him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Isn't Mommy coming?" Pam asked sleepily.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Another time, baby," Tom said softly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He took them out to the waiting car and Kay.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "They won't take them," she said. "You'll see."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Where is it, Kay?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri110\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 She remained sullenly silent and Henderson felt his nerves \expndtw-3 cracking. "Kay-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri125\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "All right." She gave him directions grudgingly, as though \expndtw0 she hated to share her survival with him. She wouldn't look \expndtw1 at the girls, already asleep in the back of the car.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri125\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 They drove through the city, the looted, tortured city that \expndtw2 burned and echoed to the shrill gaiety of Star Parties and \expndtw1 already stank of death.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Twice, they were almost struck by careening cars, filled \expndtw5 with drunken, naked, insane people, all with the desperate \expndtw4 desire to make this last night more vivid than all the others' back to the very beginning of time.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li48\ri34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 The headlights illuminated tableaus from some wild in\-\expndtw1 ferno as the car swung around through the concrete cemetery \expndtw2 the city had become:\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\ri29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 A woman hung by the ankles, her skirt shrouding her face \expndtw5 and upper body, her legs and buttocks flayed...\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li29\ri34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Psalm singers kneeling in the street, not moving as a truck \expndtw6 cut a swath through their midst. And the hymn, thin and \expndtw1 weak, heard over the moans of the dying: \i Rock of Ages, cleft \expndtw5 for me, let me hide myself in thee...\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri38\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Sudden sun-worshippers and troglodytes dancing round a fire of burning books...\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri38\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\i The death throes of a world, \i0 Henderson thought. \i What \expndtw2 survives the fire and flood will have to be better.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri38\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw7 And then they had reached the silent hill that was the \expndtw4 entrance to the Burrow, the miles-deep warren clothed in \expndtw6 refrigerator pipes and cooling earth. "There," Kay said. \expndtw4 "Where you see the light. There'll be a guard."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri38\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Behind them, the fires burned in the city. The night was \expndtw2 growing lighter, lit by a rising moon, a moon too red, \expndtw11 too large. \i Four hours left, perhaps, \i0 Tom thought. \i Or \expndtw-4 less.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri29\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "You can't take them," Kay was whispering harshly. "If you try they might not let us in. It's kinder to let them stay \expndtw3 here-asleep. They'll never know."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "That's right," Tom said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri67\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Kay got out of the car and started up the grassy slope. \expndtw0 "Then come on!"\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri58\sb5\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Halfway up the hill, Henderson could make out the pacing figure of the guard: death watch on a world. "Wait a minute," \expndtw3 he said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "What is it?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Are you sure we can get in?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033 "Of course."\cf0\lang2057\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "No questions asked?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi182\ri67\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "A11 we need are the disks. They can't know everybody \expndtw0 who belongs."\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri72\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "No," Tom said quietly. "Of course not." He stood looking \expndtw5 at Kay under the light of the red moon,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7 "Tom-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-206\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li67\sl-211\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He took Kay's hand. "We weren't worth much, were we, \expndtw-7 Kay?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Her eyes were bright, wide, staring.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sb5\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You didn't really expect anything else, did you?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-13\fs21 "Tom-Tom!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sb5\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The pistol felt light in his hand.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sb10\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "I'm your wife-" she said hoarsely,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Let's pretend you're not. Let's pretend it's a Star Party."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-9\fs21 "My God-please-nonono-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li43\ri5\sb5\sl-211\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The Luger bucked in his hand, Kay sank to the grass \expndtw-1 awkwardly and lay there, eyes glazed and open in horrified \expndtw-2 surprise. Henderson opened her dress and took the two disks from between her breasts. Then he covered her carefully and \expndtw1 shut her eyes with his forefinger. "You didn't miss much, \expndtw-1 Kay," he said looking down at her. "Just more of the same."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sb5\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He went back to the car and woke up the girls.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Where are we going now, Daddy?" Pam asked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sb5\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Up there on the hill, dear. Where the light is."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sb5\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Carry me?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri14\sb5\sl-211\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Both of you," he said, and dropped the Luger into the \expndtw1 grass. He-picked them up and carried them up the hill to within a hundred feet of the bunker entrance. Then he put \expndtw0 them down and gave them each a disk. "Go to the light and \expndtw1 give the man there these," he said, and kissed them both.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "You're not coming?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "No, babies."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sb10\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Lorrie looked as though she might start crying.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I'm afraid."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sb5\sl-211\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "There's nothing to be afraid of," Tom said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Nothing at all," Pam said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri34\sb5\sl-211\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Tom watched them go. He saw the guard kneel and hug \expndtw-1 them both. \i There is some kindness in this stripping of inhi\-\expndtw-2 bitions, \i0 Henderson thought, \i something is left after all. \i0 They disappeared into the Burrow and the guard stood up saluting \expndtw2 the darkness with a wave. Henderson turned and walked \expndtw-1 back down the hill, skirting the place where Kay lay face to \expndtw0 the sky. A Warm dry wind touched his face. \i Time running out quickly now, \i0 he thought. He got into the car and started \expndtw-2 back toward the city. There were still a few hours left of this \expndtw0 last night of summer, and Laura and he could watch the red \expndtw-1 dawn together.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-211\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-490\li1531\ri576\sl-470\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw17\b\fs29 The Store of the Worlds \expndtw-31\b0 ROBERT   SHECKLEY\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\sb418\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Mr. Wayne came to the end of the long, shoulder-high mound \expndtw2 of gray rubble, and there was the Store of the Worlds. It was \expndtw5 exactly as his friends had described: a small shack con\-\expndtw1 structed of bits of lumber, parts of cars, a piece of galvanized \expndtw0 iron and a few rows of crumbling bricks, all daubed over with \expndtw5 a watery blue paint.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri10\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 He glanced back down the long lane of rubble to make sure he hadn't been followed. He tucked his parcel more firmly under his arm; then, with a little shiver at his own \expndtw3 audacity, he opened the door and slipped inside.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Good morning," the proprietor said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri14\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 He, too, was exactly as described: a tall, crafty-looking old \expndtw4 fellow with narrow eyes and a downcast mouth. His name was Tompkins. He sat in an old rocking chair, and perched \expndtw2 on the back of it was a blue-and-green parrot. There was one other chair in the store and a table. On the table was a rusted \expndtw-1 hypodermic.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri29\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "I've heard about your store from friends," Mr. Wayne \expndtw-1 said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri29\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Then you know my price," Tompkins said. "Have you \expndtw4 brought it?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri29\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Yes," said Mr. Wayne, holding up his parcel. "All my worldly goods. But I want to ask first-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri34\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "They always want to ask," Tompkins said to the parrot, who blinked. "Go ahead, ask."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "I want to know what really happens."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri34\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Tompkins sighed. "What happens is this: I give you an \expndtw2 injection which knocks you out. Then, with the aid of certain \expndtw3 gadgets which I have in the back of the store, I liberate your \expndtw2 mind."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2342\sl-206\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 Tompkins smiled as he said that, and his silent parrot \expndtw2 seemed to smile, too.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li307\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "What happens then?" Mr. Wayne asked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 "Your mind, liberated from its body, is able to choose from \expndtw3 the countless probability worlds which the earth easts off in \expndtw2 every second of its existence."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li53\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Grinning now, Tompkins sat up in his rocking chair and \expndtw3 began to show signs of enthusiasm.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li38\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Yes, my friend, though you might not have suspected it, \expndtw1 from the moment this battered earth was born out of the sun's \expndtw0 fiery womb, it cast off its alternate-probability worlds. Worlds \expndtw5 without end, emanating from events large and small; every \expndtw2 Alexander and every amoeba creating worlds, just as ripples \expndtw4 will spread in a pond no matter how big or how small the \expndtw2 stone you throw. Doesn't every object cast a shadow? Well, \expndtw5 my friend, the earth itself is four-dimensional; therefore it \expndtw3 casts three-dimensional shadows, solid reflections of itself, \expndtw5 through every moment of its being. Millions, billions of earths! An infinity of earths! And your mind, liberated by \expndtw2 me, will be able to select any of these worlds and live upon \expndtw3 it for a while."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Mr. Wayne was uncomfortably aware that Tompkins sounded like a circus barker, proclaiming marvels that sim\-\expndtw3 ply couldn't exist. But, Mr. Wayne reminded himself, things \expndtw2 had happened within his own lifetime which he would never \expndtw3 have believed possible. Never! So perhaps the wonders that \expndtw1 Tompkins spoke of were possible, too.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Mr. Wayne said, "My friends also told me-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "That I was an out-and-out fraud?" Tompkins asked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Some of them \i implied \i0 that," Mr. Wayne said cautiously, \expndtw4 "But I try to keep an open mind. They also said-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "I know what your dirty-minded friends said. They told \expndtw3 you about the fulfillment of desire. Is that what you want to \expndtw4 hear about?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Yes," said Mr. Wayne. "They told me that whatever I \expndtw2 wished for-whatever I wanted-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw7 "Exactly," Tompkins said. 'The thing could work in no \expndtw6 other way. There are the infinite worlds to choose among. \expndtw-1 Your mind chooses and is guided only by desire. Your deepest \expndtw7 desire is the only thing that counts. If you have been har\-\expndtw4 boring a secret dream of murder-" \expndtw3 "Oh, hardly, hardly!" cried Mr. Wayne. \expndtw8 "-then you will go to a world where you \i can \i0 murder, \expndtw1 where you can roll in blood, where you can outdo De Sade or\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Nero or whoever your idol may be. Suppose it's power you \expndtw2 want? Then you'll choose a world where you are a god, lit\-\expndtw4 erally and actually. A bloodthirsty Juggernaut, perhaps, or an ail-wise Buddha."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "I doubt very much if I-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 "There are other desires, too," Tompkins said. "All heavens \expndtw2 and all hells will be open to you. Unbridled sexuality. Glut\-\expndtw4 tony, drunkenness, love, fame-anything you want."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Amazing!" said Mr. Wayne.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Yes," Tompkins agreed. "Of course, my little list doesn't \expndtw5 exhaust all the possibilities, all the combinations and per\-\expndtw1 mutations of desire. For all I know, you might want a simple, placid, pastoral existence on a South Sea island among ideal\-\expndtw2 ized natives."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "That sounds more like me," Mr. Wayne said with a shy \expndtw2 laugh.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "But who knows?" Tompkins asked, "Even you might not \expndtw3 know what your true desires are. They might involve your own death."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Does that happen often?" Mr, Wayne asked anxiously.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033 "Occasionally."\cf0\lang2057\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "I wouldn't want to die," Mr. Wayne said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "It hardly ever happens," Tompkins said, looking at the parcel in Mr. Wayne's hands.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "If you say so.... But how do I know all this is real? Your fee is extremely high; it'll take everything I own. And for all I know, you'll give me a drug and I'll just \i dream! \i0 Everything I own just for a-shot of heroin and a lot of fancy words!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri34\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Tompkins smiled reassuringly. "The experience has no druglike quality about it. And no sensation of a dream, ei\-\expndtw5 ther."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "If it's \i true," \i0 Mr. Wayne said a little petulantly, "why can't \expndtw2 I stay in the world of my desire for good?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 "I'm working on that," Tompkins said. "That's why I \expndtw4 charge so high a fee-to get materials, to experiment. I'm \expndtw3 trying to find a way of making the transition permanent. So \expndtw5 far I haven't been able to loosen the cord that binds a man \expndtw0 to his own earth-and pulls him back to it. Not even the great \expndtw5 mystics could cut that cord, except with death. But I still \expndtw2 have my hopes."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri53\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "It would be a great thing if you succeeded," Mr. Wayne said politely.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri48\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Yes, it would!" Tompkins cried with a surprising burst \expndtw-1 of passion. "For then I'd turn my wretched shop into an escape\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 hatch! My process would be free then, free for everyone! \expndtw4 Everyone could go to the earth of his desires, the earth that \expndtw6 really suited him, and leave \i this \i0 damned place to the rats \expndtw0 and worms-"\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li53\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Tompkins cut himself off in midsentence and became icy \expndtw3 calm. "But I fear my prejudices are showing. I can't offer a \expndtw4 permanent escape from this world yet, not one that doesn't \expndtw5 involve death. Perhaps I never will be able to. For now, all I can offer you is a vacation, a change, a taste of another \expndtw1 world and a look at your own desires. You know my fee. I'll \expndtw4 refund it if the experience isn't satisfactory."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 "That's good of you," Mr. Wayne said quite earnestly. "But \expndtw5 there's that other matter my friends told me about, The ten \expndtw1 years off my life."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "That can't be helped," Tompkins said, "and can't be re\-funded. My process is a tremendous strain on the nervous \expndtw2 system, and life expectancy is shortened accordingly. That's \expndtw-1 one of the reasons why our so-called government has declared \expndtw2 my process illegal,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li38\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "But they don't enforce the ban very firmly," Mr. Wayne \expndtw-1 said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li38\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "No. Officially the process is banned as \i a \i0 harmful fraud. \expndtw1 But officials are men, too. They'd like to leave this earth, just \expndtw2 like everyone else."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tlul\tx869\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "The cost," Mr, Wayne mused, gripping his parcel tightly.\line\expndtw2 "And ten years off my life! For the fulfillment of my secret\line\expndtw3 desires\expndtw0\tab\expndtw4 Really, I must give this some thought,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Think away," Tompkins said indifferently.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri38\sb202\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 All the way home Mr. Wayne thought about it. When his \expndtw4 train reached Port Washington, Long Island, he was still thinking. And driving his car from the station to his house, he was still thinking about Tompkins's crafty old face, and \expndtw3 worlds of probability, and the fulfillment of desire.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 But when he stepped inside his home, those thoughts had \expndtw4 to stop. Janet, his wife, wanted him to speak sharply to the \expndtw0 maid, who had been drinking again. His son, Tommy, wanted help with the sloop, which was to be launched tomorrow. And \expndtw5 his baby daughter wanted to tell about her day in kinder\-\expndtw4 garten.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Mr. Wayne spoke pleasantly but firmly to the maid. He \expndtw-1 helped Tommy put the final coat of copper paint on the sloop's \expndtw5 bottom, and he listened to Peggy tell about her adventures \expndtw4 in the playground.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Later, when the children were in bed and he and Janet \expndtw-1 were alone in their living room, she asked him if something \expndtw-4 was wrong.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-8\fs21 "Wrong?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You seem to be worried about something," Janet said. \expndtw-2 "Did you have 'a bad day at the office?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 "Oh, just the usual sort of thing-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He certainly was not going to tell Janet, or anyone else, that he had taken the day off and gone to see Tompkins in \expndtw-3 his crazy old Store of the Worlds, Nor was he going to speak \expndtw-1 about the right every man should have, once in his lifetime, \expndtw-4 to fulfill his most secret desires. Janet, with her good common \expndtw1 sense, would never understand that.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The next days at the office were extremely hectic. All of \expndtw0 Wall Street was in a mild panic over events in the Middle \expndtw-1 East and in Asia, and stocks were reacting accordingly. Mr. \expndtw0 Wayne settled down to work. He tried not to think of the \expndtw-2 fulfillment of desire at the cost of everything he possessed, with ten years of his life thrown in for good measure. It was crazy! Old Tompkins must be insane!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi278\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 On weekends he went sailing with Tommy. The old sloop \expndtw-1 was behaving very well, taking practically no water through \expndtw-2 her bottom seams. Tommy wanted a new suit of racing sails, \expndtw1 but Mr. Wayne sternly rejected that. Perhaps next year, if \expndtw-1 'the market looked better. For now, the old sails would have \expndtw-6 to do.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Sometimes at night, after the children were asleep, he and \expndtw0 Janet would go sailing. Long Island Sound was quiet then \expndtw-1 and cool. Their boat glided past the blinking buoys, sailing \expndtw-2 toward the swollen yellow moon.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I \i know \i0 something's on your mind," Janet said,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Darling, please!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Is there something you're keeping from me?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Nothing!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Are you sure? Are you absolutely sure?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Absolutely sure."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\tlul\tx4387\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Then, put your arms around me. That's right....\expndtw0 "\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 And the sloop sailed itself for a while.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\tlul\tx2352\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Desire and fulfillment.... \expndtw-1 But autumn came and the sloop\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li10\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 had to be hauled. The stock market regained some stability, \expndtw-1 but Peggy caught the measles. Tommy wanted to know the \expndtw-3 differences between ordinary bombs, atom bombs, hydrogen \expndtw1 bombs, cobalt bombs and all the other kinds of bombs that\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2347\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 were in the news. Mr. Wayne explained to the best of his ability. And the maid quit unexpectedly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li58\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Secret desires were all very well. Perhaps he \i did \i0 want to kill someone or live on a South Sea island. But there were \expndtw1 responsibilities to consider. He had two growing children and \expndtw2 the best of wives.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\tlul\tx3187\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 'Perhaps around Christmastime....\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li43\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 But in midwinter there was a fire in the unoccupied guest room due to defective wiring. The firemen put out the blaze \expndtw4 without much damage, and no one was hurt. But it put any \expndtw5 thought of Tompkins out of his mind for a while. First the \expndtw3 bedroom had to be repaired, for Mr, Wayne was very proud \expndtw2 of his gracious old house.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw7 Business was still frantic uncertain due to the inter\-\expndtw0 national situation. Those Russians, those Arabs, those Greeks, \expndtw8 those Chinese. The intercontinental missiles, the atom \expndtw6 bombs, the Sputniks- Mr. Wayne spent \i long \i0 days at the \expndtw5 office and sometimes evenings, too. Tommy caught the \expndtw3 mumps. A part of the roof had to be reshingled. And then \expndtw5 already it was time to consider the spring launching of the \expndtw-5 sloop,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li34\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tlhyph\tx773\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 A year had passed, and he'd had very little time to think \expndtw11 of secret desires. But perhaps next year. In the mean\-\expndtw1 time\expndtw6 -\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sb202\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Well?" said Tompkins. "Are you all right?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li29\ri48\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Yes, quite all right," Mr. Wayne said. He got up from the \expndtw4 chair and rubbed his forehead.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Do you want a refund?" Tompkins asked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "No. The experience was quite satisfactory."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri48\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "They always are," Tompkins said, winking lewdly at the \expndtw4 parrot. "Well, what was yours?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "A world of the recent past," Mr. Wayne said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri62\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "A lot of them are. Did you find out about your secret desire? Was it murder? Or a South Sea island?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri48\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "I'd rather not discuss it," Mr. Wayne said pleasantly but \expndtw0 firmly.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri58\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "A lot of people won't discuss it with me," Tompkins said \expndtw4 sulkily. "I'll be damned if I know why."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "Because-well, I think the world of one's secret desire\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li10\sl-206\slmult0\tlul\tx3307\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 seems sacred, somehow. No offense\expndtw0\tab\expndtw6 Do you think you'll\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li5\ri67\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 ever be able to make it permanent? The world of one's choice, \expndtw4 I mean?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2342\sb101\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri96\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 The old man shrugged his shoulders, "I'm trying. If I suc\-\expndtw4 ceed, you'll hear about it. Everyone will."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri86\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Yes, I suppose so." Mr. Wayne undid his parcel and laid its contents on the table. The parcel contained a pair of army \expndtw3 boots, a knife, two coils of copper wire and three small cans \expndtw-1 of corned beef.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\sl-197\slmult0\tx5026\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Tompkins's eyes glittered for a moment. "Quite satisfac-tory," he said. "Thank you."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\tx5026\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Good-bye," said Mr. Wayne. "And thank \i you,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Mr. Wayne left the shop and hurried down to the end of \expndtw2 the lane of gray rubble. Beyond it, as far as he could see, lay \expndtw1 flat fields of rubble, brown and gray and black. Those fields, \expndtw0 stretching to every horizon, were made of the twisted corpses \expndtw6 of buildings, the shattered remnants of trees and the fine \expndtw5 white ash that once was human flesh and bone.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri101\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Well," Mr. Wayne said to himself, "at least we gave as \expndtw1 good as we got."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri96\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 His year in the past had cost him everything he owned \expndtw2 and ten years of life thrown in for good measure. Had it been \expndtw5 a dream? It was still worth it! But now he had to put away \expndtw6 all thought of Janet and the children. That was finished, \expndtw2 unless Tompkins perfected his process. Now he had to think \expndtw4 about his own survival.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri101\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 He picked his way carefully through the rubble, deter\-mined to get back to the shelter before dark, before the rats \expndtw6 came out. If he didn't hurry, he'd miss the evening potato \expndtw4 ration.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-835\li709\sb1109\sl-494\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw18\b\fs27 How It Was When the Past Went Away \expndtw-25\b0                 ROBERT  SILVERBERG\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\ri43\sb442\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 The day that an antisocial fiend dumped an amnesifacient \expndtw2 drug into the city water supply was one of the finest that San \expndtw3 Francisco had had in a long while. The damp cloud that had \expndtw1 been hovering over everything for three weeks finally drifted\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2304\sl-206\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 across the bay into Berkeley that Wednesday, and the sun \expndtw0 emerged, bright and warm, to give the old town its warmest \expndtw2 day so far in 2003. The temperature climbed into the high \expndtw1 twenties, and even those oldsters who hadn't managed to learn to convert to the centigrade thermometer knew it was \expndtw0 hot. Air-conditioners hummed from the Golden Gate to the \expndtw-3 Embarcadero. Pacific Gas & Electric recorded its highest one-\expndtw0 hour load in history between two and three in the afternoon. The parks were crowded. People drank a lot of water, some \expndtw-1 a good deal more than others. Toward nightfall, the thirstiest \expndtw4 ones were already beginning to forget things. By the next \expndtw1  morning, everybody in the city was in trouble, with a few \expndtw2 exceptions. It had really been an ideal day for committing \expndtw-1 a monstrous crime.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li72\ri14\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx4915\cf1\lang1033\fs21 On the day before the past went away, Paul Mueller had\line\expndtw-1 been thinking seriously about leaving the state and claiming\line\expndtw0 refuge in one of the debtor sanctuaries-Reno, maybe, or\line\expndtw3 Caracas. It wasn't altogether his fault, but he was close\expndtw0\tab\expndtw7 to\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li67\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 a million in the red and his creditors were getting unruly. \expndtw-2 It had reached the point where they were sending their robot \expndtw2 bill collectors around to harass him in person, just about \expndtw1 every three hours.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\li48\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Mr. Mueller? I am requested to notify you that the sum \expndtw-2 of $8,005.97 is overdue in your account with Modern Age Recreators, Inc. We have applied to your financial represen\-\expndtw0 tative and have discovered your state of insolvency, and \expndtw-1 therefore, unless a payment of $395.61 is made by the elev\-\expndtw0 enth of this month, we may find it necessary to begin con\-\expndtw4 fiscation procedures against your person. Thus I advise \expndtw-10 you-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li43\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "-the amount of $11,554.97, payable on the ninth of Au\-\expndtw-1 gust, 2002, has not yet been received by Luna Tours, Ltd. \expndtw-4 Under the Credit Laws of 1995 we have applied for injunctive \expndtw0 relief against you and anticipate receiving a decree of per\-\expndtw-1 sonal service due, if no payment is received by-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "-interest on the unpaid balance is accruing, as specified \expndtw1 in your contract, at a rate of four percent per month-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "-balloon payment now coming due, requiring the im\-\expndtw-2 mediate payment of-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Mueller was growing accustomed to the routine. The ro\-\expndtw-2 bots couldn't call him-Pacific Tel & Tel had cut him out of \expndtw-1 their data net months ago-and so they came around, polite \expndtw-3 blank-faced machines stenciled with corporate emblems, and\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2381\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 in soft purring voices told him precisely how deep in the mire \expndtw2 he was at the moment, how fast the penalty charges were piling up, and what they planned to do to him unless he settled his debts instantly. If he tried to duck them, they'd \expndtw0 simply track him down in the streets like indefatigable pro\-cess servers, and announce his shame to the whole city. So \expndtw-3 he didn't duck them. But fairly soon their threats would begin \expndtw0 to materialize.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 They could do awful things to him. The decree of personal \expndtw-5 service, for example, would turn him into a slave, he'd become \expndtw0 an employee of his creditor, at a court-stipulated salary, but \expndtw-3 every cent he earned would be applied against his debt, while \expndtw0 the creditor provided him with minimal food, shelter, and \expndtw-3 clothing. He might find himself compelled to do menial jobs \expndtw-2 that a robot would spit at, for two or three years, just to clear \expndtw-1 that one debt. Personal confiscation procedures were even \expndtw1 worse; under that deal he might well end up as the actual \expndtw-5 servant of one of the executives of a creditor company, shining \expndtw-1 shoes and folding shirts. They might also get an open-ended \expndtw2 garnishment on him, under which he and his descendants, \expndtw-3 if any, would pay \i & \i0 stated percentage of their annual income \expndtw0 down through the ages until the debt, and the compounding \expndtw-2 interest thereon, was finally satisfied. There were other tech\-\expndtw0 niques for dealing with delinquents, too.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi269\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He had no recourse to bankruptcy. The states and the \expndtw0 federal government had tossed out the bankruptcy laws in \expndtw-3 1995, after the so-called Credit Epidemic of the 1980's, when \expndtw2 for a while it was actually fashionable to go irretrievably \expndtw-1 into debt and throw yourself on the mercy of the courts. The haven of easy bankruptcy was no more; if you became in\-\expndtw0 solvent, your creditors had you in their grip. The only way was to jump to a debtor sanctuary, a place where local laws \expndtw-1 barred any extradition for a credit offense. There were about \expndtw-2 a dozen such sanctuaries, and you could live well there, pro\-vided you had some special skill that you could sell at a high \expndtw-3 price. You needed to make a good living, because in a debtor \expndtw0 sanctuary everything was on a strictly cash basis-cash in advance, at that, even for a haircut. Mueller had a skill that \expndtw-1 he thought would see him through: he was an artist, a maker \expndtw-5 of sonic sculptures, and his work was always in good demand. \expndtw1 All he needed was a few thousand dollars to purchase the \expndtw-1 basic tools of his trade-his last set of sculpting equipment had been repossessed a few weeks ago-and he could set up \expndtw2 a studio in one of the sanctuaries, beyond the reach of the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2342\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 robot hounds. He imagined he could still find a friend who \expndtw1 would lend him a few thousand dollars. In the name of art, \expndtw-1 so to speak. In a good cause.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li48\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 If he stayed within the sanctuary area for ten consecutive \expndtw-4 years, he would be absolved of his debts and could come forth \expndtw-2 a free man. There was only one catch, not a small one. Once \expndtw0 a man had taken the sanctuary route, he was forever barred \expndtw2 from all credit channels when he returned to the outside \expndtw-3 world. He couldn't even get a post office credit card, let alone \expndtw1 a bank loan. Mueller wasn't sure he could live that way, \expndtw2 paying cash for everything all the rest of his life. It would \expndtw-1 be terribly cumbersome and dreary. Worse: it would be bar\-baric. \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He made a note on his memo pad: \i Call Freddy Munson \expndtw-4 in morning and borrow three bigs. Buy ticket to Caracas, Buy \expndtw-1 sculpting stuff.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li43\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 The die was cast-unless he changed his mind in the morn\-\expndtw-7 ing.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li19\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He peered moodily out at the row of glistening white\-\expndtw-1 washed just-post-Earthquake houses descending the steeply \expndtw1 inclined street that ran down Telegraph Hill toward Fish\-\expndtw0 erman's Wharf. They sparkled in the unfamiliar sunlight. A beautiful day, Mueller thought. A beautiful day to drown \expndtw1 yourself in the bay. Damn. Damn, Damn. He was going to \expndtw0 be forty years old soon, He had come into the world on the \expndtw3 same black day that President John Kennedy had left it. \expndtw-4 Born in an evil hour, doomed to a dark fate. Mueller scowled. \expndtw1 He went to the tap and got a glass of water. It was the only thing he could afford to drink, just now. He asked himself \expndtw3 how he had ever managed to get into such a mess. Nearly \expndtw0 a million in debt!\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He lay down dismally to take a nap.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 When he woke, toward midnight, he felt better than he \expndtw0 had felt for a long time. Some great cloud seemed to have lifted from him, even as it had lifted from the city that day. \expndtw-4 Mueller was actually in a cheerful mood. He couldn't imagine \expndtw-9 why.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri48\sb202\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 In an elegant townhouse on Marina Boulevard, The \expndtw-4 Amazing Montini was rehearsing his act. The Amazing Mon-\expndtw0 tini was a professional mnemonist: a small, dapper man of \expndtw-2 sixty, who never forgot a thing. Deeply tanned, his dark hair slicked back at a sharp angle, his small black eyes glistening \expndtw1 with confidence, his thin lips fastidiously pursed. He drew\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2347\sb106\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 a book from a shelf and let it drop open at random. It was \expndtw-3 an old one-volume edition of Shakespeare, a familiar prop in \expndtw1 his nightclub act. He skimmed the page, nodded, looked \expndtw-3 briefly at another, then another, and smiled his inward smile. Life was kind to The Amazing Montini. He earned a com\-fortable $30,000 a week on tour, having converted a freakish \expndtw0 gift into a profitable enterprise. Tomorrow night he'd open for a week at Vegas; then on to Manila, Tokyo, Bangkok, Cairo, on around the globe. In twelve weeks he'd earn his year's take; then he'd relax once more.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 It was all so easy. He knew so many good tricks. Let them \expndtw-2 scream out a twenty digit number; he'd scream it right back. \expndtw-1 Let them bombard him with long strings of nonsense sylla\-bles; he'd repeat the gibberish flawlessly. Let them draw \expndtw-3 intricate mathematical formulas on the computer screen; he'd \expndtw-2 reproduce them down to the last exponent. His memory was \expndtw1 perfect, both for visuals and auditories, and for the other \expndtw0 registers as well.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The Shakespeare thing, which was one of the simplest \expndtw-2 routines he had, always awed the impressionable. It seemed \expndtw-1 so fantastic to most people that a man could memorize the \expndtw-5 complete works, page by page. He liked to use it as an opener.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He handed the book to Nadia, his assistant. Also his mis\-\expndtw-2 tress; Montini liked to keep his circle of intimates close. She \expndtw0 was twenty years old, taller than he was, with wide frost-gleamed eyes and a torrent of glowing, artificially radiant \expndtw2 azure hair: up to the minute in every fashion. She wore a \expndtw-1 glass bodice, a nice container for the things contained. She was not very bright, but she did the things Montini expected \expndtw0 her to do, and did them quite well. She would be replaced, \expndtw-3 he estimated, in about eighteen more months. He grew bored \expndtw-2 quickly with his women. His memory was too good.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Let's start," he said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 She opened the book. "Page 537, left-hand column."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Instantly the page floated before Montini's eyes. "Henry VI, Part Two," he said. "King Henry: Say, man, were these thy words? Horner: An't shall please your majesty, I never \expndtw0 said nor thought any such matter: God is my witness, I am \expndtw-1 falsely accused by the villain. Peter: By these ten bones, my \expndtw-2 lords, he did speak them to me in the garret one night, as we \expndtw-5 were scouring my Lord of York's armour. York: Base dunghill \expndtw-1 villain, and-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Page 778, right-hand column," Nadia said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2098\li2342\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Romeo and Juliet. Mercutio is speaking:... an eye would \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 spy out such a quarrel? Thy head is as full of quarrels as an \expndtw2 egg is full of meat, and yet thy head hath been beaten as \expndtw1 addle as an egg for quarreling. Thou hast quarreled with a \expndtw-2 man for coughing in the street, because he hath wakened thy \expndtw2 dog that hath lain asleep in the sun. Didst thou not-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Page 307, starting fourteen lines down on the right side."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li58\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Montini smiled. He liked the passage. A screen would \expndtw0 show it to his audience at the performance.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Twelfth Night," he said. "The Duke speaks: Too old, by \expndtw2 heaven. Let still the woman take an elder than herself, so \expndtw-1 wears she to him, so sways she level in her husband's heart: \expndtw0 For, boy, however we do praise ourselves, our fancies are \expndtw-2 more giddy and unfirm-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Page 495, left-hand column."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Wait a minute," Montini said. He poured himself a tall \expndtw0 glass of water and drank it in three quick gulps. "This work \expndtw1 always makes me thirsty."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri24\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Taylor Braskett, Lt. Comdr., Ret., U.S Space Service, \expndtw2 strode with springy stride into his Oak Street home, just \expndtw-1 outside Golden Gate Park. At 71, Commander Braskett still managed to move in a jaunty way, and he was ready to step \expndtw1 back into uniform at once if this country needed him. He \expndtw-1 believed his country did need him, more than ever, now that socialism was running like wildfire through half the nations of Europe. Guard the home front, at least. Protect what's left \expndtw-4 of traditional American liberty. What we ought to have, Com\-\expndtw-1 mander Braskett believed, is a network of C-bombs in orbit, ready to rain hellish death on the enemies of democracy. No matter what that treaty says, we must be prepared to defend \expndtw-3 ourselves.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Commander Braskett's theories were not widely accepted. \expndtw-2 People respected him for having been one of the first Amer\-\expndtw-4 icans to land on Mars, of course, but he knew that they quietly \expndtw2 regarded him as a crank, a crackpot, an antiquated Minute \expndtw1 Man still fretting about the Redcoats. He had enough of a \expndtw0 sense of humor to realize that he did cut an absurd figure to \expndtw-1 these young people. But he was sincere in his determination \expndtw0 to help keep America free-to protect the youngsters from \expndtw2 the lash of totalitarianism, whether they laughed at him or \expndtw-4 not. All this glorious sunny day he had been walking through \expndtw3 the park, trying to talk to the young ones, attempting to \expndtw1 explain his position. He was courteous, attentive, eager to \expndtw-3 find someone who would ask him questions. The trouble was\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2342\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 that no one listened. And the young ones-stripped to the \expndtw-1 waist in the sunshine, girls as well as boys, taking drugs out in the open, using the foulest obscenities in casual speech- at times, Commander Braskett almost came to think that the battle for America had already been lost. Yet he never gave up all hope.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He had been in the park for hours. Now, at home, he \expndtw0 walked past the trophy room, into the kitchen, opened the \expndtw-3 refrigerator, drew out a bottle of water. Commander Braskett \expndtw1 had three bottles of mountain spring water delivered to his \expndtw-2 home every two days; it was a habit he had begun fifty years \expndtw0 ago, when they had first started talking about putting fluor\-\expndtw1 ides in the water. He was not unaware of the little smiles \expndtw0 they gave him when he admitted that he drank only bottled \expndtw2 spring water, but he didn't mind; he had outlived many of \expndtw1 the smilers already, and attributed his perfect health to his \expndtw0 refusal to touch the polluted, contaminated water that most \expndtw-2 other people drank. First chlorine, then fluorides-probably \expndtw-1 they were putting in some other things by now, Commander \expndtw2 Braskett thought.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He drank deeply.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri34\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 You have no way of telling what sort of dangerous chem\-\expndtw2 icals they might be putting in the municipal water system \expndtw-2 these days, he told himself. Am I a crank? Then I'm a crank. \expndtw3 But a sane man drinks only water he can trust.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri38\sb206\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Fetally curled, knees pressed almost to chin, trembling, sweating, Nate Haldersen closed his eyes and tried to ease \expndtw-4 himself of the pain of existence. Another day. A sweet, sunny \expndtw-2 day. Happy people playing in the park. Fathers and children. \expndtw0 Husbands and wives. He bit his lip, hard, just short of lac\-\expndtw2 eration intensity. He was an expert at punishing himself.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\ri24\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Sensors mounted in his bed in the Psychotrauma Ward of \expndtw-3 Fletcher Memorial Hospital scanned him continuously, send\-\expndtw-1 ing a constant flow of reports to Dr. Bryce and his team of \expndtw-2 shrinks. Nate Haldersen knew he was a man without secrets. \expndtw0 His hormone count, enzyme ratios, respiration, circulation, \expndtw1 even the taste of bile in his mouth-it all became instanta\-\expndtw-1 neously known to hospital personnel. When the sensors dis\-covered him slipping below the depression line, ultrasonic \expndtw0 snouts came nosing up from the recesses of the mattress, \expndtw-1 proximity nozzles that sought him out in the bed, found the \expndtw-2 proper veins, squirted him full of dynajuice to cheer him up.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2347\sl-206\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li77\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Modern science was wonderful. It could do everything for \expndtw0 Haldersen except give him back his family.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The door slid open. Dr. Bryce came in. The head shrink \expndtw1 looked his part: tall, solemn yet charming, gray at the tem\-\expndtw-1 ples, clearly a wielder of power and an initiate of mysteries. \expndtw-2 He sat down beside Haldersen's bed. As usual, he made a big \expndtw0 point of not looking at the row of computer outputs next to \expndtw-1 the bed that gave the latest details on Haldersen's condition.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li302\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Nate?" he said. "How goes?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "It goes," Haldersen muttered.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Feel like talking awhile?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Not specially. Get me a drink of water?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\fs21 "Sure," the shrink said. He fetched it and said, "It's a \expndtw0 gorgeous day. How about a walk in the park?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I haven't left this room in two and a half years, Doctor. You know that."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri29\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Always a time to break loose. There's nothing physically \expndtw-1 wrong with you, you know."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li48\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I just don't feel like seeing people," Haldersen said. He \expndtw-1 handed back the empty glass. "More?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Want something stronger to drink?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\li14\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Water's fine." Haldersen closed his eyes. Unwanted im\-\expndtw0 ages danced behind the lids: the rocket liner blowing open over the pole, the passengers spilling out like autumn seeds erupting from a pod, Emily tumbling down, down, falling \expndtw1 eighty thousand feet, her golden hair swept up by the thin \expndtw-3 cold wind, her short skirt flapping at her hips, her long lovely \expndtw-2 legs clawing at the sky for a place to stand. And the children \expndtw-4 falling beside her, angels dropping from heaven, down, down, \expndtw-3 down, toward the white soothing fleece of the polar ice. They \expndtw1 sleep in peace, Haldersen thought, and I missed the plane, \expndtw3 and I alone remain. And Job spake, and said, Let the day perish wherein I was born, and the night in which it was \expndtw-1 said, There is a man child conceived.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "It was eleven years ago," Dr. Bryce told him. "Won't you \expndtw-1 let go of it?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri48\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Stupid talk coming from a shrink. Why won't it let go of \expndtw-10\i me?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "You don't want it to. You're too fond of playing your role."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "Today is talking-tough day, eh? Get me some more \expndtw-1 water."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Get up and get it yourself," said the shrink.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Haldersen smiled bitterly. He left the bed, crossing the room a little unsteadily, and filled his glass. He had had all\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2347\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 sorts of therapy-sympathy therapy, antagonism therapy, \expndtw-3 drugs, shock, orthodox freuding, the works. They did nothing \expndtw-1 for him. He was left with the image of an opening pod, and \expndtw-2 falling figures against the iron-blue sky. The Lord gave, and \expndtw-1 the Lord hath taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord. \expndtw0 My soul is weary of my life. He put the glass to his lips. Eleven years. I missed the plane. I sinned with Marie, and \expndtw-1 Emily died, and John, and Beth. What did it feel like to fall \expndtw-3 so far? Was it like flying? Was there ecstasy in it? Haldersen \expndtw1 filled the glass again.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Thirsty today, eh?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\tx4296\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Yes," Haldersen said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "Sure you don't want to take a little walk?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You know I don't." Haldersen shivered. He turned and \expndtw0 caught the psychiatrist by the forearm. "When does it end, Tim? How long do I have to carry this thing around?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Until you're willing to put it down."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "How can I make a conscious effort to forget something? \expndtw2 Tim, Tim, isn't there some drug I can take, something to \expndtw1 wash away a memory that's killing me?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Nothing effective."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "You're lying," Haldersen murmured. "I've read about the \expndtw0 amnesifacients. The enzymes that eat memory-RNA. The \expndtw-2 experiments with di-isopropyl fluorophosphate. Puromycin. \expndtw-9 The-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Dr. Bryce said, "We have no control over their operations. -We can't simply go after a single block of traumatic memories \expndtw-1 while leaving the rest of your mind unharmed. We'd have to \expndtw0 bash about at random, hoping we got the trouble spot, but \expndtw-1 never knowing what else we were blotting out. You'd wake \expndtw0 up without your trauma, but maybe without remembering \expndtw2 anything else that happened to you between, say, the ages \expndtw-2 of 14 and 40. Maybe in fifty years we'll know enough to be able to direct the dosage at a specific-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "I can't wait fifty years."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I'm sorry, Nate."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Give me the drug anyway. I'll take my chances on what \expndtw-3 I lose."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "We'll talk about that some other time, all right? The \expndtw-2 drugs are experimental. There'd be months of red tape before \expndtw1 I could get authorization to try them on a human subject. \expndtw-2 You have to realize-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Haldersen turned him off. He saw only with his inner eye, \expndtw2 saw the tumbling bodies, reliving his bereavement for the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 billionth time, slipping easily back into his self-assumed role \expndtw-1 of Job. I am a brother to dragons, and a companion to owls. \expndtw-4 He hath destroyed me on every side, and I am gone: and mine \expndtw1 hope hath he removed like a tree.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The shrink continued to speak. Haldersen continued not \expndtw-1 to listen. He poured himself one more glass of water with a \expndtw1 shaky hand.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li43\ri10\sb202\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 It was close to midnight on Wednesday before Pierre Ger\-ard, his wife, their two sons, and their daughter had a chance \expndtw0 to have dinner. They were the proprietors, chefs, and total \expndtw3 staff of the Petit Pois Restaurant on Sansome Street, and \expndtw-3 business had been extraordinarily, exhaustingly good all eve\-\expndtw2 ning. Usually they were able to eat about half past five, \expndtw0 before the dinner rush began, but today people had begun \expndtw-4 coining in early-made more expansive by the good weather, \expndtw-2 no doubt-and there hadn't been a free moment for anybody \expndtw-4 since the cocktail hour. The Gerards were accustomed to brisk \expndtw1 trade, for theirs was perhaps the most popular family-run \expndtw-1 bistro in the city, with a passionately devoted clientele. Still, \expndtw1 a night like this was too much!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li14\ri29\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 They dined modestly on the evening's miscalculations: an \expndtw-1 overdone rack of lamb, some faintly corky Chateau Bey-\expndtw0 chevelle '97, a fallen souffle, and such. They were thrifty \expndtw2 people. Their one extravagance was the Evian water that they imported from France. Pierre Gerard had not set foot \expndtw1 in his native Lyons for thirty years, but he preserved many of the customs of the motherland, including the traditional attitude toward water. A Frenchman does not drink much \expndtw-2 water; but what he does drink comes always from the bottle, \expndtw-4 never from the tap. To do otherwise is to risk a diseased liver. \expndtw1 One must guard one's liver.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri48\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 That night Freddy Munson picked up Helene at her flat \expndtw-2 on Geary and drove across the bridge to Sausalito for dinner, \expndtw0 as usual, at Ondine's. Ondine's was one of only four restau\-rants, all of them famous old ones, at which Munson ate in \expndtw1 fixed rotation. He was a man of firm habits. He awakened religiously at six each morning, and was at his desk in the \expndtw2 brokerage house by seven, plugging himself into the data channels to learn what had happened in the European fi\-\expndtw0 nance markets while he slept. At half past seven local time the New York exchanges opened and the real day's work \expndtw1 began. By half past eleven, New York was through for the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2342\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 day, and Munson went around the corner for lunch, always at the Petit Pois, whose proprietor he had helped to make a \expndtw0 millionaire by putting him into Consolidated Nucleonics' sev\-\expndtw3 eral components two and a half years before the big merger. \expndtw4 At half past one, Munson was back in the office to transact \expndtw2 business for his own account on the Pacific Coast exchange; \expndtw6 three days a week he left at three, but on Tuesdays and \expndtw5 Thursdays he stayed as late as five in order to catch some \expndtw4 deals on the Honolulu and Tokyo exchanges. Afterwards, \expndtw3 dinner, a play or concert, always a handsome female com\-\expndtw-1 panion. He tried to get to sleep, or at least to bed, by midnight.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li14\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 A man in Freddy Munson's position \i had \i0 to be orderly. At \expndtw2 any given time, his thefts from his clients ranged from six to \expndtw-1 nine million dollars, and he kept all the details of his jugglings \expndtw2 in his head. He couldn't trust putting them on paper, because \expndtw3 there were scanner eyes everywhere; and he certainly didn't \expndtw4 dare employ the data net, since it was well known that any\-\expndtw-2 thing you confided to one computer was bound to be accessible \expndtw-1 to some other computer somewhere, no matter how tight a pri\-\expndtw1 vacy seal you slapped on it. So Munson had to remember the \expndtw3 intricacies of fifty or more illicit transactions, a constantly \expndtw2 changing chain of embezzlements, and a man who practices \expndtw0 such necessary disciplines of memory soon gets into the habit of extending discipline to every phase of his life.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Helene snuggled close. Her faintly psychedelic perfume \expndtw5 drifted toward his nostrils. He locked the car into the Sau-\expndtw2 salito circuit and leaned back comfortably as the traffic-con\-\expndtw5 trol computer took over the steering. Helene said, "At the \expndtw2 Bryce place last night I saw two sculptures by your bankrupt friend."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Paul Mueller?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "That's the one. They were very good sculptures. One of \expndtw16 them buzzed at me."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "What were you doing at the Bryces?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "I went to college with Lisa Bryce. She invited me over \expndtw5 with Marty."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "I didn't realize you were that old," Munson said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Helene giggled. "Lisa's a lot younger than her husband, \expndtw4 dear. How much does a Paul Mueller sculpture cost?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Fifteen, twenty thousand, generally. More for specials."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "And he's broke, even so?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Paul has a rare talent for self-destruction," Munson said. \expndtw4 "He simply doesn't comprehend money. But it's his artistic salvation, in a way. The more desperately in debt he is, the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 finer his work becomes. He creates out of his despair, so to \expndtw0 speak. Though he seems to have overdone the latest crisis. \expndtw-1 He's stopped working altogether. It's a sin against humanity \expndtw1 when an artist doesn't work."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You can be so eloquent, Freddy," Helena said softly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li34\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 When The Amazing Montini woke Thursday morning, he did not at once realize that anything had changed. His mem\-\expndtw1 ory, like a good servant, was always there when he needed \expndtw0 to call on it, but the array of perfectly fixed farts he carried \expndtw-1 in his mind remained submerged until required, A librarian \expndtw-4 might scan shelves and see books- missing; Montini could not \expndtw-2 detect similar vacancies of his synapses. He had been up for \expndtw0 half an hour, had stepped under the molecular bath and had \expndtw1 punched for his breakfast and had awakened Nadia to tell her to confirm the pod reservations to Vegas, and finally, \expndtw0 like a concert pianist running off a few arpeggios to limber \expndtw1 his fingers for the day's chores, Montini reached into his memory bank for a little Shakespeare and no Shakespeare \expndtw-6 came.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 He stood quite still, gripping the astrolabe that orna\-\expndtw0 mented his picture window, and peered out at the bridge in \expndtw1 sudden bewilderment. It had never been necessary for him \expndtw-3 to make a conscious effort to recover data. He merely looked \expndtw1 and it was there; but where was Shakespeare? Where was \expndtw-3 the left-hand column of page 136, and the right-hand column \expndtw-2 of page 654, and the right-hand column of page 806, sixteen lines down? Gone? He drew blanks. The screen of his mind showed him only empty pages.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Easy. This is unusual, but it isn't catastrophic. You must \expndtw1 be tense, for some reason, and you're forcing it, that's all. \expndtw-1 Relax, pull something else out of storage-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The New York Times, Wednesday, October 3, 1973. Yes, \expndtw2 there it was, the front page, beautifully clear, the story on \expndtw0 the baseball game down in the lower right-hand corner, the \expndtw-2 headline about the jet accident big and black, even the photo \expndtw0 credit visible. Fine. Now let's try-\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 The St. Louis \i Post-Dispatch, \i0 Sunday, April 19,1987. Mon\-\expndtw-3 tini shivered. He saw the top four inches of the page, nothing \expndtw-2 else. Wiped clean.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He ran through the files of other newspapers he had mem\-\expndtw-1 orized for his act. Some were there. Some were not. Some, \expndtw0 like the \i Post-Dispatch, \i0 were obliterated in part. Color rose to his cheeks. Who had tampered with his memory?\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He tried Shakespeare again. Nothing.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He tried the 1997 Chicago data-net directory. It was there.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He tried his third-grade geography textbook. It was there, \expndtw1 the big red book with smeary print.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He tried last Friday's five-o'clock xerofax bulletin. Gone.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He stumbled and sank down on a divan he had purchased in Istanbul, he recalled, on the nineteenth of May, 1985, for \expndtw-2 4,200 Turkish pounds. "Nadia!" he cried. "Nadia!" His voice \expndtw2 was little more than a croak. She came running, her eyes \expndtw-1 only half frosted, her morning face askew.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "How do I look?" he demanded. "My mouth-is my mouth \expndtw-3 right? My eyes?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Your face is all flushed."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Aside from that!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I don't know," she gasped. "You seem all upset, but-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Half my mind is gone," Montini said. "I must have had \expndtw2 a stroke. Is there any facial paralysis? That's a symptom. \expndtw0 Call my doctor, Nadia! A stroke, a stroke! It's the end for \expndtw-4 Montini!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri14\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Paul Mueller, awakening at midnight on Wednesday and \expndtw1 feeling strangely refreshed, attempted to get his bearings. \expndtw-1 Why was he fully dressed, and why had he been asleep? A \expndtw1 nap, perhaps, that had stretched on too long? He tried to \expndtw0 remember what he had been doing earlier in the day, but he \expndtw-1 was unable to find a clue. He was baffled but not disturbed; \expndtw-2 mainly he felt a tremendous urge to get to work. The images \expndtw0 of five sculptures, fully planned and begging to be con\-structed, jostled in his mind. Might as well start right now, \expndtw-2 he thought. Work through till morning. That small twittering silvery one-that's a good one to start with. I'll block out the \expndtw-1 schematics, maybe even do some of the armature-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Carole?" he called. "Carole, art you around?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\fs21 His voice echoed through the oddly empty apartment.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 For the first time Mueller noticed how little furniture \expndtw1 there was. A bed-a cot, really, not their double bed-and \expndtw0 a table, and a tiny insulator unit for food, and a few diehes. \expndtw-1 No carpeting. Where were his sculptures, his private collec\-\expndtw0 tion of his own best work? He walked into his studio and \expndtw-2 found it bare from wall to wall, all of his tools mysteriously swept away, just a few discarded sketches on the floor. And \expndtw-4 his wife? "Carole? \i Carole?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He could not understand any of this. While he dozed, it \expndtw1 seemed, someone had cleaned the place out, stolen his fur-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 niture, his sculptures, even the carpet Mueller had heard of \expndtw-2 such thefts. They came with a van, brazenly, posing as mov\-\expndtw-4 ing men. Perhaps they had given him some sort of drug while \expndtw0 they worked. He could not bear the thought that they had taken his sculptures; the rest didn't matter, but he had cher\-\expndtw-2 ished those dozen pieces dearly. I'd better call the police, he \expndtw-1 decided, and rushed toward the handset of the data unit, but \expndtw1 it wasn't there either. Would burglars take \i that \i0 too?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Searching for some answers, he scurried from wall to wall, \expndtw-2 and saw a note in his own handwriting. \i Call Freddy Munson \expndtw-4 in morning and borrow three bigs. Buy ticket to Caracas. Buy \expndtw-1 sculpting stuff.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Caracas? A vacation, maybe? And why buy sculpting \expndtw-5 stuff? Obviously the tools had been gone before he fell asleep, then. Why? And where was his wife? What was going on? He \expndtw-1 wondered if he ought to call Freddy right now, instead of \expndtw0 waiting until morning. Freddy might know. Freddy was al\-\expndtw-1 ways home by midnight, too. He'd have one of his damned \expndtw1 girls with him and wouldn't want to be interrupted, but to \expndtw-2 hell with that; what good was having friends if you couldn't \expndtw1 bother them in a time of crisis?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri43\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Heading for the nearest public communicator booth, he \expndtw-1 rushed out of his apartment and nearly collided with a sleek \expndtw0 dunning robot in the hallway. The things show no mercy, \expndtw-2 Mueller thought. They plague you at all hours. No doubt this one was on its way to bother the deadbeat Nicholson family \expndtw0 down the hall.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The robot said, "Mr. Paul Mueller? I am a properly qual\-\expndtw1 ified respresentative of International Fabrication Cartel, \expndtw2 Amalgamated. I am here to serve notice that there is an \expndtw0 unpaid balance in your account to the extent of $9,150.55, \expndtw-3 which as of 0900 hours tomorrow morning will accrue com\-\expndtw0 pounded penalty interest at the rate of 5 percent per month, \expndtw-2 since you have not responded to our three previous requests \expndtw-1 for payment. I must further inform you- ''\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "You're off your neutrinos," Mueller snapped. "I don't owe \expndtw0 a dime to I.F.C.! For once in my life I'm in the black, and don't try to make me believe otherwise."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The robot replied patiently, "Shall I give you a printout \expndtw0 of the transactions? On the fifth of January, 2003, you or\-dered the following metal products' from us: three 4-meter \expndtw-1 tubes of antiqued iridium, six 10-centimeter spheres of-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "The fifth of January, 2003, happens to be three months from now," Mueller said, "and I don't have time to listen to\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 crazy robots. I've got an Important call to make. Can I trust you to patch me into the data net without garbling things?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "I am not authorized to permit you to make use of my \expndtw1 facilities."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Emergency override," said Mueller. "Human being in \expndtw4 trouble. Go argue with that one!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 The robot's conditioning was sound. It yielded at once to \expndtw3 his assertion of an emergency and set up a relay to the main \expndtw5 communications net. Mueller supplied Freddy Munson's \expndtw4 number. "I can provide audio only," the robot said, putting \expndtw2 the call through. Nearly a minute passed. Then Freddy Mun\-\expndtw3 son's familiar deep voice snarled from the speaker grille in \expndtw4 the robot's chest, "Who is it and what do you want?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "It's Paul. I'm sorry to bust in on you, Freddy, but I'm in \expndtw4 big trouble. I think I'm losing my mind, or else everybody \expndtw1 else is."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Maybe everybody else \i is. \i0 What's the problem?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "All my furniture's gone. A dunning robot is trying to \expndtw4 shake me down for nine bigs, I don't know where Carole is. I can't remember what I was doing earlier today. I've got a \expndtw1 note here about getting tickets to Caracas that I wrote myself, \expndtw2 and I don't know why. And-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Skip the rest," Munson said. "I can't do anything for you. I've got problems of my own."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Can I come over, at least, and talk?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Absolutely not!" In a softer voice Munson said, "Listen, \expndtw4 Paul, I didn't mean to yell, but something's come up here, \expndtw3 something very distressing-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li14\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "You don't need to pretend. You've got Helene with you \expndtw4 and you wish I'd leave you alone. Okay."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2 "No. Honestly," Munson said. "I've got problems, suddenly. \expndtw5 I'm in a totally ungood position to give you any help at all. \expndtw2 I need help myself."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "What sort? Anything I can do for you?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "I'm afraid not. And if you'll excuse me, Paul-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Just tell me one thing, at least. Where am I likely to find Carole. Do you have any idea?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "At her husband's place, I'd say."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\i "I'm \i0 her husband."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 There was a long pause. Munson said finally, "Paul, she \expndtw1 divorced you last January and married Pete Castine in April."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "No," Mueller said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033 "What, no?"\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li235\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "No, it isn't possible."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Have you been popping pills, Paul? Sniffing something? \expndtw3 Smoking weed? Look, I'm sorry, but I can't take time now \expndtw-4 to-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "At least tell me what day today is."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033 "Wednesday,"\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033 "Which Wednesday?"\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Wednesday the eighth of May. Thursday the ninth, ac\-\expndtw5 tually, by this time of night."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "And the year?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "For Christ's sake, Paul-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "The y\i ear?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3 "2003."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Mueller sagged. "Freddy, I've lost half a year somewhere! \expndtw2 For me it's last October 2002, I've got some weird kind of \expndtw5 amnesia. It's the only explanation,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2 "Amnesia," Munson said. The edge of tension left his voice. \expndtw1 "Is that what you've got? Amnesia? Can there be such a thing \expndtw-1 as an epidemic of amnesia? Is it contagious? Maybe you better \expndtw0 come over here after all. Because amnesia's my problem too."\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\ri19\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Thursday, May 9, promised to be as beautiful as the pre\-\expndtw0 vious day had been. The sun once again beamed on San Fran\-cisco; the sky was clear, the air warm and tender, Commander \expndtw3 Braskett awoke early as always, punched for his usual spar\-\expndtw6 tan breakfast, studied the morning xerofax news, spent an \expndtw4 hour dictating his memoirs, and, about nine, went out for a \expndtw0 walk. The streets were strangely crowded, he found, when he \expndtw1 got down to the shopping district along Haight Street, People \expndtw4 were wandering about aimlessly, dazedly, as though they \expndtw2 were sleepwalkers. Were they drunk? Drugged? Three times \expndtw3 in five minutes Commander Braskett was stopped by young \expndtw5 men who wanted to know the date. Not the time, the \i date. \i0 He told them, crisply, disdainfully; he tried to be tolerant, \expndtw1 but it was difficult for him not to despise people who were so \expndtw5 weak that they were unable to refrain from poisoning their minds with stimulants and narcotics and psychedelics and \expndtw2 similar trash. At the corner of Haight and Masonic a forlorn-\expndtw3 looking pretty girl of about seventeen, with wide blank blue \expndtw5 eyes, halted him and said, "Sir, this city is San Francisco, \expndtw0 isn't it? I mean, I was supposed to move here from Pittsburgh \expndtw6 in May, and if this is May, this is San Francisco, right?" \expndtw4 Commander. Braskett nodded brusquely and turned away, \expndtw0 pained. He was relieved to see an old friend, Lou Sandler, the \expndtw2 manager of the Bank of America office across the way, San-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 dler was standing outside the bank door. Commander Bras-\expndtw-3 kett crossed to him and said, "Isn't it a disgrace, Lou, the way \expndtw2 this whole street \i is \i0 filled with addicts this morning? What \expndtw0 is it, some historical pageant of the 1960's?" And Sandler \expndtw-1 gave him an empty smile and said, "Is that my name? Lou? \expndtw-4 You wouldn't happen to know the last name \i too, \i0 would you? Somehow it's slipped my mind." In that moment Commander \expndtw2 Braskett realized that something terrible had happened to \expndtw0 his city and perhaps to his country, and that the leftist take\-over he had long dreaded must now be at hand, and that it \expndtw-1 was time for him to don his old uniform again and do what \expndtw0 he could to strike back at the enemy.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri14\sb206\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 In joy and in confusion, Nate Haldersen awoke that morn\-\expndtw0 ing realizing that he had been transformed in some strange \expndtw-2 and wonderful way. His head was throbbing, but not pain\-\expndtw-1 fully. It seemed to him that a terrible weight had been lifted \expndtw-2 from his shoulders, that the fierce dead hand about his throat \expndtw2 had at last relinquished its grip.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He sprang from bed, full of questions.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri19\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Where am I? What kind of place is this? Why am I not at \expndtw-3 home? Where are my books? Why do I feel so happy?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 This seemed to be a hospital room.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 There was a veil across his mind. He pierced its filmy folds \expndtw-1 and realized that he had committed himself to-to Fletcher \expndtw-4 Memorial-last-August-no, the August before last-suf\-\expndtw-2 fering with a severe emotional disturbance brought on by- \expndtw-3 brought on by-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 He had never felt happier than at this moment.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He saw a mirror. In it was the reflected upper half of \expndtw0 Nathaniel Haldersen, Ph.D. Nate Haldersen smiled at him\-\expndtw-2 self. Tall, stringy, long-nosed man, absurdly straw-colored \expndtw1 hair, absurd blue eyes, thin lips, smiling. Bony body. He \expndtw-2 undid his pajama top. Pale, hairless chest; bump of hone like \expndtw0 an epaulet on each shoulder. I have been sick a long time, \expndtw-2 Haldersen thought. Now I must get out of here, back to my classroom. End of leave of absence. Where are my clothes?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri29\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Nurse? Doctor?" He pressed his call button three times. \expndtw-4 "Hello? Anyone here?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri24\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 No one came. Odd; they always came. Shrugging, Hald\-\expndtw-1 ersen moved out into the hall. He saw three orderlies, heads \expndtw0 together, buzzing at the far end. They ignored him. A robot\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2318\sl-206\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 servitor carrying breakfast trays glided past, A moment later \expndtw0 one of the younger doctors came running through the hall, \expndtw-3 and would not stop when Haldersen called to him. Annoyed, \expndtw-4 he went back into his room and looked about for clothing. He \expndtw1 found none, only a little stack of magazines on the closet \expndtw-1 floor. He thumbed the call button three more times. Finally one of the robots entered the room.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "I am sorry," it said, "but the human hospital personnel \expndtw0 is busy at present. May I serve you, Dr. Haldersen?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "I want a suit of clothing. I'm leaving the hospital."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li34\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "I am sorry, but there is no record of your discharge. With\-\expndtw-1 out authorization from Dr. Bryce, Dr. Reynolds, or Dr. Ka-\expndtw2 makura, I am not permitted to allow your departure."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Haldersen sighed. He knew better than to argue with a \expndtw0 robot. "Where are those three gentlemen right now?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "They are occupied, sir. As you may know, there is a med\-\expndtw-1 ical emergency in the city this morning, and Dr. Bryce and \expndtw-2 Dr. Kamakura are helping to organize the committee of pub\-\expndtw-3 lic safety. Dr. Reynolds did not report for duty today and we \expndtw1 are unable to trace him. It is believed that he is a victim of \expndtw0 the current difficulty."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i\fs21 "What \i0 current difficulty?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Mass loss of memory on the part of the human popula\-\expndtw0 tion," the robot said.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "An epidemic of amnesia?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "That is one interpretation of the problem."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "How can such a thing-" Haldersen stopped. He under\-\expndtw-3 stood now the source of his own joy this morning. Only yes\-\expndtw-1 terday afternoon he had discussed with Tim Bryce the ap\-\expndtw-3 plication of memory-destroying drugs to his own trauma, and \expndtw-2 Bryce had said-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Haldersen no longer knew the nature of his own trauma,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Wait," he said, as the robot began to leave the room. "I need information. Why have I been under treatment here?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "You have been suffering from social displacements and \expndtw-3 dysfunctions whose origin, Dr. Bryce feels, lies in a situation \expndtw0 of traumatic personal loss."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\fs21 "Loss of what?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Your family, Dr. Haldersen."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Yes. That's right. I recall, now-I had a wife and two \expndtw1 children. Emily. And a fittle girt-Margaret, Elizabeth, \expndtw-2 something like that. And a boy named John. What happened \expndtw-1 to them?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2098\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "They were passengers aboard Intercontinental Airways \cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Flight 103, Copenhagen to San Francisco, September 5,1991. \expndtw-1 The plane underwent explosive decompression over the Arctic \expndtw4 Ocean and there were no survivors,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Haldersen absorbed the information as calmly as though \expndtw5 he were hearing of the assassination of Julius Caesar.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Where was I when the accident occurred?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "In Copenhagen," the robot replied. "You had intended to \expndtw1 return to San Francisco with your family on Flight 103; how\-\expndtw3 ever, according to your data file here, you became involved \expndtw5 in an emotional relationship with a woman named Marie \expndtw4 Rasmussen, whom you had met in Copenhagen, And failed \expndtw1 to return to your hotel in time to go to the airport. Your wife, \expndtw3 evidently aware of the situation, chose not to wait for you. \expndtw6 Her subsequent death, and that of your children, produced \expndtw2 a traumatic guilt reaction in which you came to regard your\-\expndtw4 self as responsible for their terminations."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "I \i would \i0 take that attitude, wouldn't I?" Haldersen said. \expndtw1 "Sin and retribution. Mea culpa, mea maxima culpa. I always \expndtw4 had a harsh view of sin, even while I was sinning. I should have been an Old Testament prophet."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Shall I provide more information, sir?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Is there more?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri19\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "We have in the files Dr. Bryce's report headed, \i The Job Complex: A Study in the Paralysis of Guilt."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Spare me that," Haldersen said. "All right, go."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li5\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 He was alone. The Job Complex, he thought. Not really appropriate, was it? Job was a man without sin, and yet he \expndtw3 was punished grievously to satisfy a whim \'abf the Almighty. A little presumptuous, I'd say, to identify myself with him. \expndtw5 Cain would have been a better choice. Cain said unto the Lord, My punishment is greater than I can bear. But Cain \expndtw4 was a sinner. I was a sinner. I sinned and Emily died for it. \expndtw1 When, eleven, eleven and a half years ago? And now I know \expndtw3 nothing at all about it except what the machine just told me. \expndtw2 Redemption through oblivion, I'd call it. I have expiated my \expndtw3 sin and now I'm free. I have no business staying in this hos\-\expndtw5 pital any longer. Strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, \expndtw2 which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it. I've got \expndtw3 to get out of here. Maybe I can be of some help to others.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 He belted his bathrobe, took a drink of water, and went \expndtw3 out of the room. No one stopped him. The elevator did not \expndtw0 seem to be running, but he found the stairs, and walked down, \expndtw4 a little creakily. He had not been this far from his room in \expndtw6 more than a year. The lower floors of the hospital were in\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 chaos-doctors, orderlies, robots, patients, all milling around \expndtw0 excitedly. The robots were trying to \i calm \i0 people and get them \expndtw2 back to their proper places. "Excuse me," Haldersen said se\-renely. "Excuse me. Excuse me." He left the hospital, un\-\expndtw3 molested, by the front door. The air outside was as fresh as young wine; he felt like weeping when it hit his nostrils. He was free. Redemption through oblivion. The disaster high \expndtw0 abpve the Arctic no longer dominated his thoughts. He looked \expndtw2 upon it precisely as if it had happened to the family of some other man, long ago. Haldersen began to walk briskly down \expndtw6 Van Ness, feeling vigor returning to his legs with every \expndtw-1 stride. A young woman, sobbing wildly, erupted from a build\-\expndtw3 ing and collided with him. He caught her, steadied her, Was \expndtw4 surprised at his own strength as he kept her from toppling. \expndtw6 She trembled and pressed her head against his chest, "Can \expndtw2 I do anything for you?" he asked. "Can I be of any help?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri14\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Panic had begun to enfold Freddy Munson during dinner at Ondine's Wednesday night. He had begun to be annoyed with Helene in\i  \i0 the midst of the truffled chicken breasts, and \expndtw4 so he had started to think about the details of business; and \expndtw5 to his amazement he did not seem to have the details quite \expndtw4 right in his mind; and so he felt the early twinges of terror.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi269\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 The trouble was that Helene was going on and on about \expndtw5 the art of sonic sculpture in general and Paul Mueller in \expndtw2 particular. Her interest was enough to arouse faint jealousies \expndtw4 in Munson. Was she getting ready to leap from his bed to Paul's? Was she thinking of abandoning the wealthy, glam\-orous, but essentially prosaic stockbroker for the irrespon\-\expndtw2 sible, impecunious, fascinatingly gifted sculptor? Of course, Helene kept company with a number of other men, but Mun\-\expndtw4 son knew them and discounted them as rivals; they were \expndtw3 nonentities, escorts to fill her idle nights when he was-too \expndtw8 busy for her. Paul Mueller, however, was another Mun\-\expndtw3 son could not bear the thought that Helene might leave him \expndtw2 for Paul. So he shifted his concentration to the day's maneu\-\expndtw4 vers. He had extracted a thousand shares of the $5.87 con\-\expndtw7 vertible preferred of Lunar Transit from the Schaeffer \expndtw2 account, pledging it as collateral to cover his shortage in the \expndtw1 matter of the Comsat debentures, and then, tapping the How\-\expndtw2 ard account for five thousand Southeast Energy Corporation \expndtw5 warrants, he had-or had those warrants come out of the \expndtw-1 Brewster account? Brewster was big on utilities. So was How\-\expndtw5 ard, but that account was heavy on Mid-Atlantic Power, so\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 would it also be loaded with Southeast Energy? In any case, \expndtw6 had he put those warrants up against the Zurich uranium \expndtw5 futures, or were they riding as his markers in the Antarctic \expndtw3 oil-lease thing? He could not remember.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 He could not remember.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 He could not remember.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Each transaction had been in its own compartment. The \expndtw1 partitions were down, suddenly. Numbers were spilling about \expndtw0 in his mind as though his brain were in free fall. All of today's \expndtw3 deals were tumbling. It frightened him. He began to gobble \expndtw1 his food, wanting now to get out of here, to get rid of Helene, \expndtw3 to get home and try to reconstruct his activities of the after\-\expndtw2 noon. Oddly, he could remember quite clearly all that he had \expndtw4 done yesterday-the Xerox switch, the straddle on Steel- \expndtw5 but today was washing away minute by minute.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Are you all right?" Helene asked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033 "No, I'm not," he said. "I'm coming down with something."\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "The Venus Virus. Everybody's getting it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Yes, that must be it. The Venus Virus. You'd better keep \expndtw3 clear of me tonight."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 They skipped dessert and cleared out fast. He dropped \expndtw1 Helene off at her flat; she hardly seemed disappointed, which bothered him, but not nearly so much as what was happening \expndtw2 to his mind. Alone, finally, he tried to jot down an outline of \expndtw5 his day, but even more had left him now. In the restaurant \expndtw1 he had known which stocks he had handled, though he wasn't \expndtw0 sure what he had done with them. Now he couldn't even recall \expndtw5 the specific securities. He was out on the limb for millions \expndtw0 of dollars of other people's money, and every detail was in his \expndtw1 mind, and his mind was falling apart. By the time Paul Muel\-\expndtw3 ler called, a little after midnight, Munson was growing des\-\expndtw1 perate. He was relieved, but not exactly cheered, to learn that \expndtw2 whatever strange thing had affected his mind had hit Mueller \expndtw4 a lot harder. Mueller had forgotten everything since last \expndtw-2 October.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 "You went bankrupt," Munson had to explain to him, "You \expndtw3 had this wild scheme for setting up a central clearing house \expndtw2 for works of art, a kind of stock exchange-the sort of thing \expndtw5 only an artist would try to start. You wouldn't let me dis\-\expndtw4 courage you. Then you began signing notes, and taking on contingent liabilities, and before the project was six weeks old you were hit with half a dozen lawsuits and it all began \expndtw2 to go sour."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2093\li2338\ri1824\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "When did this happen, precisely?" \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "You conceived the idea at the beginning of November, By \expndtw0 Christmas you were in severe trouble. You already had a bunch of personal debts that had gone unpaid from before, and your assets melted away, and you hit a terrible bind in y\expndtw-1 our work and couldn't produce a thing. You really don't \expndtw1 remember a thing of this, Paul?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Nothing."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "After the first of the year the fastest-moving creditors \expndtw-1 started getting decrees against you. They impounded every\-\expndtw-2 thing you owned except the furniture, and then they took the \expndtw-1 furniture. You borrowed from all of your friends, but they \expndtw-4 couldn't give you nearly enough, because you were borrowing \expndtw-1 thousands and you owed hundreds of thousands."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "How much did I hit you for?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx1930\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Eleven bigs," Munson said. "But don't worry about that \expndtw-8 now."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I'm not. I'm not worrying about a thing. I was in! a bind in my work, you say?" Mueller chuckled. "That's all gone, I'm itching to start making things. All I need are the tools- I mean, money to buy the tools."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "What would they cost?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Two and a half bigs," Mueller said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li24\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Munson coughed. "All right. I can't transfer the money to \expndtw-4 your account, because your creditors would lien it right away. \expndtw-1 I'll get some cash at the bank. You'll have three bigs tomor\-\expndtw-2 row, and welcome to it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Bless you, Freddy." Mueller said, "This kind of amnesia \expndtw1 is a good thing, eh? I was so worried about money that I couldn't work. Now I'm not worried at all. I guess I'm still \expndtw0 in debt, but I'm not fretting. Tell me what happened to my \expndtw-1 marriage, now."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Carole got fed up and turned off," said Munson. "She \expndtw-2 opposed your business venture from the start. When it began \expndtw-1 to devour you, she did what she could to untangle you from \expndtw1 it, but you insisted on trying to patch things together with \expndtw0 more loans, and she filed for a decree. When she was free, Pete Castine moved in and grabbed her."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "That's the hardest part to believe. That she'd marry an \expndtw5 art dealer, a totally noncreative person, a-a parasite, \expndtw-4 really-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "They were always good friends," Munson said. "I won't \expndtw1 say they were lovers, because I don't know, but they were close. And Pete's not that horrible. He's got taste, intelli\-\expndtw5 gence, everything an artist needs except the gift. I think\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2342\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Carole may have been weary of gifted men, anyway."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "How did I take it?" Mueller asked,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri182\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 "You hardly seemed to notice, Paul. You were so busy with \expndtw4 your financial shenanigans."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri178\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Mueller nodded. He sauntered to one of his own works, a \expndtw6 three-meter-high arrangement of oscillating rods that ran \expndtw5 the whole sound spectrum into the high kilohertzes, and \expndtw0 passed two fingers over the activator eye. The sculpture began \expndtw6 to murmur.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri163\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 After a few moments Mueller said, "You sounded awfully upset when I called, Freddy. You say you have some kind of \expndtw2 amnesia too?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri182\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Trying to be casual about it, Munson said, "I find I can't \expndtw4 remember some important transactions I carried out today. \expndtw3 Unfortunately, my only record of them is in my head. But \expndtw2 maybe the information will come back to me when I've slept on it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "There's no way I can help you with that."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "No. There isn't."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Freddy, where is this amnesia coming from?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\sl-197\slmult0\tx4435\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Munson shrugged. "Maybe somebody put a drug in the \expndtw3 water supply, or spiked the food, or something. These days, \expndtw2 you never can tell. Look, I've got to do some work, Paul. If you'd like to sleep here tonight-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li14\ri202\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "I'm wide awake, thanks. I'll drop by again in the morn\-\expndtw0 ing."\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 When the sculptor was gone, Munson struggled for a fe\-\expndtw2 verish hour to reconstruct his data, and failed. Shortly before \expndtw3 two he took a four-hour-sleep pill. When he awakened, he \expndtw2 realized in dismay that he had no memories whatever for the \expndtw4 period from April 1 to noon yesterday. During those five weeks he had engaged in countless securities transactions, \expndtw3 using other people's property as his collateral, and counting \expndtw6 on his ability to get each marker in his game back into its \expndtw0 proper place before anyone was likely to go looking for it. He \expndtw1 had always been able to remember everything. Now he could \expndtw4 remember nothing. He reached his office at seven in the \expndtw5 morning, as always, and out of habit plugged himself into \expndtw6 the data channels to study the Zurich and London quotes, \expndtw1 but the prices on the screen were strange to him, and he knew \expndtw5 that he was undone.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\sb202\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 At the same moment of Thursday morning Dr. Timothy   \expndtw5 Bryce's house computer triggered an impulse and the alarm\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sl-197\slmult0\qr\tx2851\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 voice in his pillow said quietly but firmly, "It's time to wake \expndtw0 up, Dr, Bryce." He stirred but lay still. After the prescribed \expndtw-1 ten-second interval the voice said, a little more sharply, "It's \expndtw1 time to wake up, Dr. Bryce." Bryce sat up, just in time; the \expndtw0 lifting of his head from the pillow cut off the third, much sterner, repetition, which would have been followed by the opening chords of the \i Jupiter \i0 Symphony. The psychiatrist \expndtw-2 opened his eyes.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li53\ri14\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He was surprised to find himself sharing his bed with a \expndtw2 strikingly attractive girl.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 She was a honey blonde, deeply tanned, with light-brown \expndtw-1 eyes, full pale lips, and a sleek, elegant body. She looked to be fairly young, a good twenty years younger than he was- \expndtw-3 perhaps twenty-five, twenty-eight. She wore nothing, and she \expndtw-1 was in a deep sleep, her lower lip sagging in a sort of invol\-untary pout. Neither her youth nor her beauty nor her nudity \expndtw-2 surprised him; he was puzzled simply because he had no no\-\expndtw-4 tion who she was or how she had come to be in bed with him. \expndtw-1 He felt as though he had never seen her before. Certainly he \expndtw1 didn't know her name. Had he picked her up at some party \expndtw-2 last night? He couldn't seem to remember where he had been \expndtw0 last night. Gently he nudged her elbow.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 She woke quickly, fluttering her eyelids, shaking her head.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri34\sb10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Oh," she said, as she saw him, and clutched the sheet up \expndtw2 to her throat. Then, smiling, she dropped it again. "That's \expndtw-2 foolish. No need to be modest \i now, \i0 I guess."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sb10\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "I guess. Hello."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Hello," she said. She looked as confused as he was.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\sb5\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "This is going to sound stupid," he said, "but \expndtw-2 have slipped me \i & \i0 weird weed last night, because I'm afraid \expndtw-1 I'm not sure how I happed to bring you home. Or what your name is."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri48\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Lisa," she said. "Lisa-Falk." She stumbled over the sec\-ond name. "And you're-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sb5\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 'Tim Bryce."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You don't remember where we met?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "No," he said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Neither do I."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri53\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He got out of bed, feeling a little hesitant about his own \expndtw-1 nakedness, and fighting the inhibition off. "They must have given us both the same thing to smoke, then. You know"- he grinned shyly-"I can't even remember if we had a good \expndtw1 time together last night. I hope we did."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-206\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "I think we did," she said, "I can't remember it either. But \expndtw2 I feel good inside-the way I usually do after I've-" She \expndtw4 paused. "We couldn't have met only just last night, Tim."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "How can you tell?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "I've got the feeling that I've known you longer than that."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Bryce shrugged. "I don't see how. I mean, without being too coarse about it, obviously we were both high last night, \expndtw4 really floating, and we met and came here and-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "No. I feel at home here. As if I moved in with you weeks \expndtw3 and weeks ago."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "A lovely idea. But I'm sure you didn't."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Why do I feel so much at home here, then?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "In what way?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "In every way." She walked to the bedroom closet and let \expndtw1 her hand rest on the touchplate. The door slid open; evidently \expndtw2 he had keyed the house computer to her fingerprints. Had he \expndtw3 done that last night too? She reached in. "My clothing," she \expndtw-2 said. "Look. All these dresses, coats, shoes. A whole wardrobe. \expndtw5 There can't be any doubt. We've been living together and \expndtw3 don't remember it!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 A chill swept through him. "What have they done to us? \expndtw5 Listen, Lisa, let's get dressed and eat and go down to the \expndtw3 hospital together for a checkup. We-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\tx4709\cf1\lang1033 "Hospital?"\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Fletcher Memorial. I'm in the neurological department. \expndtw5 Whatever they slipped us last night has hit us both with a \expndtw4 lacunary retrograde amnesia-a gap in our memories-and it could be serious. If it's caused brain damage, perhaps it's not'irreversible yet, but we can't fool around."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 She put her hand to her lips in fear. Bryce felt a sudden \expndtw3 warm urge to protect this lovely stranger, to guard and com\-\expndtw5 fort her, and he realized he must be in love with her, even \expndtw3 though he couldn't remember who she was. He crossed the \expndtw4 room to her and seized her in a brief, tight embrace; she \expndtw5 responded eagerly, shivering a little. By a quarter to eight they were out of the house and heading for the hospital \expndtw3 through unusually light traffic. Bryce led the girl quickly to \expndtw5 the staff lounge. Ted Kamakura was there already, in uni\-\expndtw2 form. The little Japanese psychiatrist nodded curtly and said, \expndtw0 "Morning, Tim." Then he blinked. "Good morning, Lisa. How come \i you're \i0 here?"\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "You know her?" Bryce asked,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "What kind of question is that?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "A deadly serious one."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2342\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Of course I know her," Kamakura said, and Ms smile of \expndtw0 greeting abruptly faded. "Why? Is something wrong about that?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You may know her, but I don't," said Bryce.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Oh, God. Not you too!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Tell me who she is, Ted."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\ri24\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw8\fs21 "She's your wife, Tim. You married her five years \expndtw-7 ago."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li29\ri34\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 By half past eleven Thursday morning the Gerards had everything set up and going smoothly for the lunch rush at \expndtw-1 the Petit Pois. The soup caldron was bubbling, the escargot \expndtw0 trays were ready to be popped in the oven, the sauces were \expndtw2 taking form. Pierre Gerard was a bit surprised when most \expndtw-2 of the lunch-time regulars failed to show up. Even Mr. Mun-\expndtw-3 son, always punctual at half past eleven, did not arrive. Some \expndtw-2 of these men had not missed weekday lunch at the Petit Pois \expndtw0 in fifteen years. Something terrible must have happened on \expndtw1 the stock market, Pierre thought, to have kept all these fi\-\expndtw2 nancial men at their desks, and they were too busy to call \expndtw0 him and cancel their usual tables. That must be the answer. \expndtw-3 It was impossible that any of the regulars would forget to call \expndtw0 him. The stock market must be exploding. Pierre made a \expndtw1 mental note to call his broker after lunch and find out what \expndtw-3 was going on.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri48\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 About two Thursday afternoon, Paul Mueller stopped into \expndtw1 Metchinkoff's Art Supplies in North Beach to try to get a \expndtw-3 welding pen, some raw metal, loudspeaker paint, and the rest of the things he needed for the rebirth of his sculpting career. \expndtw0 Metchnikoff greeted him sourly with, "No credit at all, Mr. \expndtw-1 Mueller, not even a nickel!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "It's all right. I'm a cash customer this time."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li14\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The dealer brightened. "In that case it's all right, maybe. \expndtw-1 You finished with your troubles?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "I hope so," Mueller said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He gave the order. It came to about $2,300; when the time \expndtw2 came to pay, he explained that he simply had to run down \expndtw0 to Montgomery Street to pick up the cash from his friend \expndtw-3 Freddy Munson, who was holding three bigs for him. Metch\-\expndtw-4 nikoff began to glower again. "Five minutes!" Mueller called. \expndtw-1 "I'll be back in five minutes!" But when he got to Munson's office, he found the place in confusion, and Munson wasn't \expndtw-4 there. "Did he leave an envelope for a Mr. Mueller?" he asked\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2342\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 a distraught secretary. "I was supposed to pick something \expndtw2 important up here this afternoon. Would you please check?" \expndtw3 The girl simply ran away from him. So did the next girl. A \expndtw2 burly broker told him to get out of the office. "We're closed, fellow," he shouted. Baffled, Mueller left.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Not daring to return to Metchnikoff 's with the news that, he hadn't been able to raise the cash after all, Mueller simply \expndtw4 went home. Three dunning robots were camped outside his \expndtw3 door, and each one began to croak its cry of doom as he ap\-proached. "Sorry," Mueller said, "I can't remember a thing about any of this stuff," and he went inside and sat down on \expndtw1 the bare floor, angry, thinking of the brilliant pieces he could \expndtw4 be turning out if he could only get his hands on the tools of \expndtw3 his trade. He made sketches instead. At least the ghouls had \expndtw1 left him with pencil and paper. Not as efficient as a computer \expndtw4 screen and a light-pen, maybe, but Michelangelo and Ben-\expndtw5 venuto Cellini had managed to make out all right without \expndtw3 computer screens and light-pens.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li197\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1  At four o'clock the doorbell rang.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Go \i away," \i0 Mueller said through the speaker. "See my \expndtw3 accountant! I don't want to hear any more dunnings, and the \expndtw0 next time I catch one of you idiot robots by my door I'm going \expndtw-5 to-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "It's me, Paul," a nonmeehanical voice said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1 Carole.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 He rushed to the door. There were seven robots out there, surrounding her, and they tried to get in; but he pushed them \expndtw4 back so she could enter. A robot didn't dare lay a paw on a \expndtw3 human being. He slammed the door in their metal faces and \expndtw0 locked it.\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Carole looked fine. Her hair was longer than he remem\-\expndtw5 bered it, and she had gained about eight pounds in all the \expndtw3 right places, and she wore an iridescent peekaboo wrap that \expndtw1 he had never seen before, and which was really inappropriate \expndtw2 for afternoon wear, but which looked splendid on her. She \expndtw4 seemed at least five years younger than she really was; ev\-\expndtw5 idently a month and a half of marriage to Pete Castine had \expndtw2 done more for her than nine years of marriage to Paul Muel\-\expndtw3 ler. She glowed. She also looked strained and tense, but that \expndtw4 seemed superficial, the product of some distress of the last \expndtw1 few hours.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "I seem to have lost my key," she said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "What are you doing here?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2098\li2338\ri2189\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "I don't understand you, Paul." \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li307\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "I mean, why'd you come here?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "I \i live \i0 here."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li302\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Do you?" He laughed harshly. "Very funny,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "You always did have \i a \i0 weird sense of humor, Paul." She \expndtw3 stepped past him. "Only this isn't any joke. Where is every\-\expndtw5 thing? The furniture, Paul. My things." Suddenly she was \expndtw7 crying. "I must be breaking up. I wake up this morning in \expndtw5 a completely strange apartment, all alone, and 1 spend the \expndtw1 whole day wandering ia a sort of daze that I don't understand \expndtw4 at all, and now I finally come home and I find that you've \expndtw1 pawned every damn thing we own, or something, and-" She \expndtw5 bit her knuckles. "Paul?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 She's got it too, he thought. The amnesia epidemic.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 He said quietly, "This is a funny thing to ask, Carole, but \expndtw4 will you tell me what today's date is?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Why-the fourteenth of September-or is it the fif\-teenth-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3 "2002?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "What do you think? 1776?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri24\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 She's got it worse than I have, Mueller told himself. She's lost a whole extra month. She doesn't remember my business venture. She doesn't remember my losing all the money. \i She \expndtw-1 doesn't remember divorcing me. \i0 She thinks she's still my wife.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Come in here," he said, and led her to the bedroom. He \expndtw4 pointed to the cot that stood where their bed had been. "Sit \expndtw2 down, Carole. I'll try to explain. It won't make much sense, \expndtw5 but I'll try to explain."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\ri24\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 Under the circumstances, the concert by the visiting New York Philharmonic for Thursday evening was canceled. \expndtw2 Nevertheless the orchestra assembled for its rehearsal at half \expndtw4 past two in the afternoon. The union required so many re\-hearsals-with pay-a week; therefore the orchestra re\-\expndtw5 hearsed, regardless of external cataclysms. But there were \expndtw0 problems. Maestro Alvarez, who used an electronic baton and \expndtw5 proudly conducted without a score, thumbed the button for a downbeat and realized abruptly, with a sensation as of \expndtw6 dropping through a trapdoor, that the Brahms Fourth was \expndtw0 wholly gone from his mind. The orchestra responded raggedly \expndtw4 to his faltering leadership; some of the musicians had no \expndtw3 difficulties, but the concertmaster stared in horror at his left \expndtw5 hand, wondering how to finger the strings for the notes his \expndtw0 violin was supposed to be yielding, and the second oboe could \expndtw6 not find the proper keys, and the first bassoon had not yet\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw7 even managed to remember how to put his instrument to\-\expndtw2 gether.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li14\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 By nightfall, Tim Bryce had managed to assemble enough \expndtw4 of the story so that he understood what had happened, not \expndtw3 only to himself and to Lisa, but to the entire city. A drug, or \expndtw5 drugs, almost certainly distributed through the municipal \expndtw3 water supply, had leached away nearly everyone's memory. \expndtw4 The trouble with modern life, Bryce thought, is that tech\-\expndtw3 nology gives us the potential for newer and more intricate \expndtw4 disasters every year, but doesn't seem to give us the ability \expndtw2 to ward them off. Memory drugs were old stuff, going back \expndtw1 thirty, forty years. He had studied several types of them him\-\expndtw3 self. Memory is partly a chemical and partly an electrical \expndtw4 process; some drugs went after the electrical end, jamming \expndtw1 the snyapses over which brain transmissions travel, and some \expndtw3 went after the molecular substrata in which long-term mem\-ories are locked up. Bryce knew ways of destroying short-\expndtw5 term memories by inhibiting synapse transmission, and he \expndtw3 knew ways of destroying the deep long-term memories by washing out the complex chains of ribonucleic acid, brain-\expndtw5 RNA, by which they are inscribed in the brain. But such \expndtw4 drugs were experimental, tricky, unpredictable; he had hes\-\expndtw2 itated to use them on human subjects; he certainly had never \expndtw4 imagined that anyone would simply dump them into an aq\-ueduct and give an entire city a simultaneous lobotomy.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 His office at Fletcher Memorial had become an improvised \expndtw1 center of operations for San Francisco. The mayor was there, \expndtw3 pale and shrunken; the chief of police, exhausted and con\-\expndtw0 fused, periodically turned his back and popped a pill; a dazed-\expndtw2 looking representative of the communications net hovered in \expndtw4 a corner, nervously monitoring the hastily rigged system \expndtw2 through which the committee of public safety that Bryce had summoned could make its orders known throughout the city.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The mayor was no use at all. He couldn't even remember \expndtw1 having run for office. The chief of police was in even worse \expndtw4 shape; he had been up all night because he had forgotten, \expndtw0 among other things, his home address, and he had been afraid \expndtw4 to query a computer about it for fear he'd lose his job for \expndtw3 drunkenness. By now the chief of police was aware that he \expndtw5 wasn't the only one in the city having memory problems \expndtw2 today, and he had looked up his address in the files and even telephoned his wife, but he was close to collapse. Bryce had \expndtw9 insisted that both men stay here as symbols of order; he\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li72\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 wanted only their faces and their voices, not their fumble-\expndtw1 headed official services.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 A dozen or so miscellaneous citizens had accumulated in \expndtw2 Bryce's office too. At five in the afternoon he had broadcast an all-media appeal, asking anyone whose memory of recent \expndtw0 events was unimpaired to come to Fletcher Memorial. "If you \expndtw5 haven't had any city water in the past twenty-four hours, \expndtw0 you're probably all right. Come down here. We need you." He \expndtw8 had drawn a curious assortment. There was a ramrod-\expndtw5 straight old space hero, Taylor Braskett, a pure-foods nut \expndtw7 who drank only mountain water. There was a family of \expndtw5 French restaurateurs, mother, father, three grown children, \expndtw2 who preferred mineral water flown in from their native land. \expndtw3 There was a computer salesman named McBurney who had \expndtw4 been in Los Angeles on business and hadn't had any of the drugged water. There was a retired cop named Adler who \expndtw2 hved in Oakland, where there were no memory problems; he \expndtw7 had hurried across the bay as soon as he heard that San \expndtw4 Francisco was in trouble. That was before all access to the \expndtw1 city had been shut off at Bryce's orders. And there were some \expndtw3 others, of doubtful value but of definitely intact memory.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li5\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw6 The three screens that the communications man had \expndtw1 mounted provided a relay of key points in the city. Right now \expndtw6 one was monitoring the Fisherman's Wharf district from a \expndtw3 camera atop Ghirardelli Square, one was viewing the finan\-\expndtw4 cial district from a helicopter over the old Ferry Building \expndtw2 Museum, and one was relaying a pickup from a mobile truck \expndtw4 in Golden Gate Park. The scenes were similar everywhere: people milling about, asking questions, getting no answers. \expndtw6 There wasn't any overt sign of looting yet. There were no \expndtw2 fires. The police, those of them able to function, were out in \expndtw5 force, and antiriot robots were cruising the bigger streets, \expndtw6 just in case they might be needed to squirt their stifling \expndtw3 blankets of foam at suddenly panicked mobs.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 Bryce said to the mayor, "At half past six I want you to \expndtw4 go on all media with an appeal for calm. We'll supply you with everything you have to say."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The mayor moaned.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Bryce said, "Don't worry. I'll feed you the whole speech by \expndtw2 bone relay. Just concentrate on speaking clearly and looking \expndtw5 straight into the camera. If you come across as a terrified \expndtw2 man, it can be the end for all of us. If you look cool, we may \expndtw5 be able to pull through."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2098\li2333\ri1536\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs22 The mayor put his face in his hands. \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li82\ri101\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Ted Kamakura whispered, "You can't put him on the chan\-\expndtw3 nels, Tim! He's a wreck, and everyone will see it!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li82\ri106\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "The city's mayor has to show himself," Bryce insisted. "Give him a double jolt of bracers. Let him make this one \expndtw5 speech and then we can put him to pasture."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li82\ri101\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 "Who'll be the spokesman, then?" Kamakura asked. "You? Me? Police Chief Dennison?"\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li77\ri106\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "1 don't know," Bryce muttered. "We need an authority-\expndtw1 image to make announcements every half hour or so, and I'm \expndtw3 damned if I'll have time. Or you. And Dennison-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li72\ri106\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Gentlemen, may I make a suggestion?" It was the old \expndtw2 spaceman, Braskett. "I wish to volunteer as spokesman. You \expndtw4 must admit I have \i a \i0 certain look of authority. And I'm ac\-\expndtw3 customed to speaking to the public."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li67\sl-197\slmult0\tx3850\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Bryce rejected the idea instantly. That right-wing crack\-pot, that author of passionate nut letters to every news me\-\expndtw3 dium in the state, that latter-day Paul Revere? Him, spokes\-\expndtw1 man for the committee? But in the moment of rejection came \expndtw2 acceptance. Nobody really paid attention to far-out political \expndtw5 activities like that; probably nine people out of ten in San \expndtw6 Francisco thought of Braskett, if at all, simply as the hero \expndtw3 of the First Mars Expedition. He was \i s \i0 handsome old horse, \expndtw0 too, elegantly upright and lean. Deep voice; unwavering eyes. \expndtw3 A man of strength and presence.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li72\ri120\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Bryce said, "Commander Braskett, if we were to make you \expndtw3 chairman of the committee of public safety-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li302\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Ted Kamakura gasped.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li67\ri120\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "--would I have your assurance thst such public an\-\expndtw2 nouncements as you would make would be confined entirely \expndtw5 to statements of the policies arrived at by the entire com\-\expndtw3 mittee?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li67\ri115\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Commander Braskett smiled glacially. "You want me to \expndtw5 be a figurehead, is that it?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li307\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "To be our spokesman, with the official title of chairman."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi307\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw9 "As I said: to be a figurehead. Very well, I accept. I'll \expndtw3 mouth my lines like an obedient puppet, and I won't attempt \expndtw7 to inject any of my radical, extremist ideas into my state-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 ments. Is that what you wish?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li67\ri130\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "I think we understand each other perfectly," Bryce said, \expndtw5 and smiled, and got a surprisingly warm smile in return.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx5131\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 He jabbed now at his data board. Someone in the path lab \line\expndtw1 eight stories below his office answered, and Bryce said, "Is\line\expndtw4 there an up-to-date analysis yet?"\expndtw0\tab\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li302\sl-197\slmult0\tx5131\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "I'll switch you to Dr. Madison."\expndtw0\tab\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\sl-197\slmult0\qr\tx2779\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Madison appeared on the screen. He ran the hospital's \expndtw-1 radioisotope department, normally: a beefy, red-faced man \expndtw0 who looked as though he ought to be a beer salesman. He knew his subject. "It's definitely the water supply, Tim," he \expndtw3 said at once. "We tentatively established that an hour and \expndtw-1 a half ago, of course, but now there's no doubt. I've isolated \expndtw-3 traces of two different memory-suppressant drugs, and there's \expndtw1 the possibility of a third. Whoever it was was taking no \expndtw-4 chances."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "What are they?" Bryce asked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Well, we've got a good jolt of acetylcholine terminase," \expndtw-4 Madison said, "which will louse up the synapses and interfere \expndtw1 with short-term memory fixation. Then there's something \expndtw-3 else, perhaps a puromycin-derivative protein dissolver, which \expndtw1 is going to work on the brain-RNA and smashing up older \expndtw0 memories. I suspect also that we've been getting one of the \expndtw8 newer experimental amnesifacients, something that I \expndtw0 haven't isolated yet, capable of working its way deep and \expndtw-3 cutting out really basic motor patterns. So they've hit us high, low, and middle."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 'That explains a lot. The guys who can't remember what \expndtw-2 they did yesterday, the guys who've lost a chunk out of then-adult memories, and the ones who don't even remember their \expndtw0 names-this thing is working on people at all different lev\-\expndtw-3 els."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Depending on individual metabolism, age, brain struc\-\expndtw-1 ture, and how much water they had to drink yesterday, yes."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Is the water supply still tainted?" Bryce asked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li14\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Tentatively, I'd say no. I've had water samples brought me from the upflow districts, and everything's okay there. \expndtw0 The water department has been running its own check; they \expndtw2 say the same. Evidently the stuff got into the system early \expndtw-2 yesterday, came down into the city, and is generally gone by \expndtw-5 now. Might be some residuals in the pipes; I'd be careful about \expndtw1 drinking water even today."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri58\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "And what does the pharmacopoeia say about the effec\-\expndtw-1 tiveness of these drugs?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Madison shrugged. "Anybody's guess. You'd know that \expndtw1 better than I, Do they wear off?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri58\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Not in the normal sense," said Bryce. "What happens is \expndtw2 the brain cuts in a redundancy circuit and gets access to a \expndtw-1 duplicate set of the affected memories, eventually-shifts to \expndtw-3 another track, so to speak-provided a duplicate of the sector \expndtw-2 in question was there in the first place, and provided that the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 duplicate wasn't blotted out also. Some people are going to get chunks of their memories back, in a few days or a few weeks. Others won't."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Wonderful," Madison said. "I'll keep you posted, Tim."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Bryce cut off the call and said to the communications man, \expndtw3 "You have that bone relay? Get it behind His Honor's ear,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 The mayor quivered. The little instrument was fastened \expndtw2 in place.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Bryce said, "Mr. Mayor, I'm going to dictate a speech, and \expndtw5 you're going to broadcast it on all media, and it's the last thing I'm going to ask of you until you've had a chance to \expndtw4 pull yourself together. Okay? Listen carefully to what I'm \expndtw3 saying, speak slowly, and pretend that tomorrow is election \expndtw0 day and your job depends on how well you come across now. \expndtw-1 You won't be going on live. There'll be a fifteen-second delay, \expndtw3 and we have a wipe circuit so we can correct any stumbles, \expndtw4 and there's absolutely no reason to be tense. Are you with \expndtw2 me? Will you give it all you've got?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "My mind is all foggy."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw7 "Simply listen to me and repeat what I say into the \expndtw4 camera's eye. Let your political reflexes take over. Here's \expndtw2 your chance to make a hero of yourself. We're living history \expndtw1 right now, Mr. Mayor. What we do here today will be studied \expndtw4 the way the events of the 1906 fire were studied. Let's go, \expndtw2 now. Follow me. \i People of the wonderful city of San Fran\-\expndtw-8 cisco\i0 -"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 The words rolled easily from Bryce's lips, and, wonder of \expndtw3 wonders, the mayor caught them and spoke them in a clear, \expndtw2 beautifully resonant voice. As he spun out his speech, Bryce \expndtw3 felt a surging flow of power going through himself, and he \expndtw4 imagined for the moment that he were the elected leader of the city, not merely a self-appointed emergency dictator. It \expndtw5 was an interesting, almost ecstatic feeling. Lisa, watching \expndtw4 him in action, gave him a loving smile.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 He smiled at her. In this moment of glory he was almost \expndtw2 able to ignore the ache of knowing that he had lost his entire \expndtw3 memory archive of his life with her. Nothing else gone, ap\-\expndtw5 parently. But, neatly, with idiot selectivity, the drug in the water supply had sliced away everything pertaining to his \expndtw3 five years of marriage. Kamakura had told him, a few hours \expndtw2 ago, that it was the happiest marriage of any he knew. Gone. \expndtw3 At least Lisa had suffered an identical loss, against all prob\-\expndtw2 abilities. Somehow that made it easier to bear; it would have \expndtw0 been awful to have one of them remember the good times and\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2342\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li62\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 the other know nothing. He was almost able to ignore the \expndtw-1 torment of loss, while he kept busy. Almost,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi226\li67\ri5\sb192\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "The mayor's going to be on in a minute," Nadia said. \expndtw-2 ''Will you listen to him? He'll explain what's been going on."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I don't care," said The Amazing Montini dully.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li53\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "It's some kind of epidemic of amnesia. When I was out \expndtw-2 before, I heard all about it. \i Everyone's \i0 got it. It isn't just you! \expndtw1 And you thought it was a stroke, but it wasn't. You're all \expndtw9 right"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "My mind is a ruin."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "It's only temporary." Her voice was shrill and uncon\-\expndtw1 vincing. "It's something in the air, maybe. Some drug they \expndtw-2 were testing that drifted in." We're all in this together. I can't \expndtw2 remember last week at all."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "What do I care?" Montini said. "Most of these people, they \expndtw-2 have no memories even when they are healthy. But me? Me? \expndtw-1 I am destroyed. Nadia, I should lie down in my grave now. \expndtw0 There is no sense in continuing to walk around."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li38\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The voice from the loudspeaker said, "Ladies and gentle\-\expndtw-2 men, His Honor Elliot Chase, the Mayor of San Francisco."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Let's listen," Nadia said.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The mayor appeared on the wallscreen, wearing his sol\-\expndtw-3 emn face, his we-face-a-grave-challenge-citizens face. Mon\-\expndtw0 tini glanced at him, shrugged, looked away.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The mayor said, "People of the wonderful city of San Fran\-\expndtw0 cisco, we have just come through the most difficult day in \expndtw-3 nearly a century, since the terrible catastrophe of April, \i 1906, \expndtw1\i0 The earth has not quaked today, nor have we been smitten' \expndtw-3 by fire, yet we have been severely tested by sudden calamity.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "As all of you surely know, the people of San Francisco \expndtw2 have been afflicted since last night by what can best be \expndtw-1 termed an epidemic of amnesia. There has been mass loss of \expndtw0 memory, ranging from mild cases of forgetfulness to near-total obliteration of identity. Scientists working at Fletcher \expndtw-2 Memorial Hospital have succeeded in determining the cause \expndtw1 of this unique and sudden disaster.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "It appears that criminal saboteurs contaminated the mu\-\expndtw1 nicipal water supply with certain restricted drugs that have \expndtw-1 the ability to dissolve memory structures. \i The effect of these \expndtw-4 drugs is temporary. \i0 There should be no cause for alarm. Even those who are most severely affected will find their memories \expndtw1 gradually beginning to return, and there is every reason to \expndtw0 expect full recovery in a matter of hours or days."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li341\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "He's lying," said Montini,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li96\sb10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "The criminals responsible have not yet been apprehend\-\expndtw1 ed, but we expect arrests momentarily. The San Francisco \expndtw-2 area is the only affected region, which means the drugs were \expndtw0 introduced into the water system just beyond city limits. \expndtw1 Everything is normal in Berkeley, in Oakland, in Marin County, and other outlying areas. -\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li86\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "In the name of public safety I have ordered the bridges \expndtw-5 to San Francisco closed, as well as the Bay Area Rapid Transit \expndtw-2 and other means of access to the city. We expect to maintain \expndtw0 these restrictions at least until tomorrow morning. The pur\-pose of this is to prevent disorder and to avoid a possible \expndtw-2 influx of undesirable elements into the city while the trouble persists. We San Franciscans are self-sufficient and can look \expndtw0 after our own needs without outside interference. However, I have been in contact with the President and with the Gov\-ernor, and they both have assured me of all possible assis\-\expndtw-1 tance.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li82\ri5\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "The water supply is at present free of the drug, and every \expndtw-4 precaution is being taken to prevent a recurrence of this crime \expndtw-2 against one million innocent people. However, I am told that \expndtw2 some lingering contamination may remain in the pipes for \expndtw0 a few hours. I recommend that you keep your consumption \expndtw-2 of water low until further notice, and that you boil any water \expndtw-1 you wish to use.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21  "Lastly. Police Chief Dennison, myself, and your other city officials will be devoting full time to the needs of the city so \expndtw-1 long as the crisis lasts. Probably we will not have the oppor\-\expndtw0 tunity to go before the media for further reports. Therefore, I have taken the step of appointing a committee of public safety, consisting of distinguished laymen and scientists of \expndtw1 San Francisco, as a coordinating body that will aid in gov\-\expndtw2 erning the city and reporting to its citizens. The chairman \expndtw-2 of this committee is the well-known veteran of so many ex\-\expndtw-4 ploits in space, Commander Taylor Braskett. Announcements \expndtw-1 concerning the developments in the crisis will come from \expndtw0 Commander Braskett for the remainder of the evening, and \expndtw-3 you may consider his words to be those of your city officials. \expndtw0 Thank you."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li67\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Braskett came on the screen. Montini grunted. "Look at the man they find. A maniac patriot!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li72\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "But the drug will wear off," Nadia said. "Your mind will \expndtw2 be all right again."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2098\li2410\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "I know these drugs. There is no hope. I am destroyed." \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li67\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The Amazing Montini moved toward the door, "I need fresh \expndtw-1 air. I will go out. Good-bye, Nadia."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi274\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 She tried to stop him. He pushed her aside. Entering Mar\-\expndtw2 ina Park, he made his way to the yacht dub; the doorman \expndtw1 admitted him, and took no further notice. Montini walked \expndtw-2 out on the pier. The drug, they say, is temporary. It will wear \expndtw0 off. My mind will clear. I doubt this very much. Montini \expndtw-1 peered at the dark, oily water, glistening with light reflected \expndtw1 from the bridge. He explored his damaged mind, scanning \expndtw-5 for gaps. Whole sections of memory were gone. The walls had \expndtw0 crumbled, slabs of plaster falling away to expose bare lath. \expndtw-1 He could not live this way. Carefully, grunting from the ex\-ertion, he lowered himself via a metal ladder into the water, \expndtw0 and kicked himself away from the pier. The water was ter\-\expndtw-1 ribly cold. His shoes seemed immensely heavy. He floated \expndtw0 toward the island of the old prison, but he doubted that he \expndtw1 would remain afloat much longer. As he drifted, he ran \expndtw0 through an inventory of his memory, seeing what remained \expndtw1 to him and finding less than enough. To test whether even his gift had survived, he attempted to play back a recall of \expndtw-4 the mayor's speech, and found the words shifting and melting. \expndtw1 It is just as well, then, he told himself, and drifted on, and \expndtw0 went under.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sb202\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Carole insisted on spending Thursday night with him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li29\ri53\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "We aren't man and wife any more," he had to tell her, \expndtw-4 "You divorced me."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri29\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Since when are you so conventional? We lived together \expndtw0 before we were married, and now we can live together after \expndtw1 we were married. Maybe we're inventing a new sin, Paul. Post-marital sex."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri48\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "That isn't the point. The point is that you came to hate \expndtw-2 me because of my financial mess, and you left me. If you try \expndtw-1 to come back to me now, you'll be going against your own \expndtw2 rational and deliberate decision of last January."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri62\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "For me last January is still four months away," she said. "I don't hate you. I love you. I always have and always will. \expndtw-2 I can't imagine how I would ever have come to divorce you, \expndtw-4 but in any case I don't remember divorcing you, and you don't \expndtw-1 remember being divorced by me, and so why can't we just keep going from the point where our memories leave off?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri67\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Among other things, because you happen to be Pete Cas-\expndtw-1 tine's wife now,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2347\sl-206\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li67\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "That sounds completely unreal to me. Something you dreamed."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li312\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Freddy Munson told me, though. It's true."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi269\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "If I went back to Pete now," Carole said, "I'd feel sinful. \expndtw-1 Simply because I supposedly married him, you want me to \expndtw1 jump into bed with him? I don't want him I want you. Can't I stay here?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li307\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "If Pete-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi77\li58\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21   "If Pete, if Pete, if Pete! In my mind I'm Mrs. Paul Mueller, \expndtw0 and in your mind I am too, and to hell with Pete, and with \expndtw-3 whatever Freddy Munson told you, and everything else. This \expndtw0 is a silly argument, Paul. Let's quit it. If you want me to get out, tell me so right now in that many words. Otherwise let me stay."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li307\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He couldn't tell her to get out.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He had only the one small cot, but they managed to share \expndtw1 it. It was uncomfortable, but in an amusing way. He felt \expndtw-1 twenty years old again for a while. In the morning they took \expndtw2 a long shower together, and then Carole went out to buy \expndtw-2 some things for breakfast, since his service had been cut off and he couldn't punch for food. A dunning robot outside the \expndtw-4 door told him, as Carole was leaving, "The decree of personal \expndtw-1 service due has been requested, Mr. Mueller, and is now \expndtw1 pending a court hearing."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "I know you not," Mueller said. "Be gone!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi293\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Today, he told himself, he would hunt up Freddy Munson \expndtw0 somehow and get that cash from him, and buy the tools he \expndtw1 needed, and start working again. Let the world outside go \expndtw-2 crazy; so long as he was working, all was well. If he couldn't find Freddy, maybe he could swing the purchase on Carole's \expndtw-1 credit. She was legally divorced from him and none of his \expndtw-2 credit taint would stain her; as Mrs. Peter Castine she should surely be able to get hold of a couple of bigs to pay Metch-\expndtw-5 nikoff. Possibly the banks were closed on account of the mem\-\expndtw-2 ory crisis today, Mueller considered; but Metchnikoff surely \expndtw-1 .wouldn't demand cash from Carole. He closed his eyes and \expndtw-2 imagined how good it would feel to be making things once \expndtw-7 more.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Carole was gone an hour. When she came back, carrying \expndtw0 groceries, Pete Castine was with her.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "He followed me," Carole explained. "He wouldn't let me \expndtw-3 alone."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He was a slim, poised, controlled man, quite athletic, sev\-\expndtw3 eral years older than Mueller-perhaps into his fifties al-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2386\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li62\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 ready-but seemingly very young. Calmly he said, "I was \expndtw-3 sure that Carole had come here. It's perfectly understandable, \expndtw1 Paul. She was here all night, I hope?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Does it matter?" Mueller asked.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li53\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 "To some extent. I'd rather have had her spending the \expndtw2 night with her former husband than with some third party \expndtw0 entirely."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "She was here all night, yes," Mueller said wearily.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li48\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I'd like her to come home with me now. She \i is \i0 my wife, \expndtw1 after all,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "She has no recollection of that. Neither do I."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "I'm aware of that." Castine nodded amiably. "In my own \expndtw0 case, I've forgotten everything that happened to me before \expndtw3 the age of twenty-two. I couldn't tell you my father's first \expndtw-2 name. However, as a matter of objective reality, Carole's my \expndtw1 wife, and her parting from you was rather bitter, and I feel she shouldn't stay here any longer."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Why are you telling all this to me?" Mueller asked. "If \expndtw-3 you want your wife to go home with you, ask her to go home \expndtw-2 with you."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "So I did. She says she won't leave here unless you direct her to go."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "That's right," Carole said, "I know whose wife I \i think \i0 I \expndtw-1 am. If Paul throws me out, I'll go with you. Not otherwise,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li24\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Mueller shrugged. "I'd be a fool to throw her out, Pete. I \expndtw2 need her and I want her, and whatever breakup she and I \expndtw-2 had isn't real to us. I know it's tough on you, but I can't help \expndtw1 that. I imagine you'll have no trouble getting an annulment \expndtw-1 once the courts work out some law to cover cases like this."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Castine was silent for a long moment,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 At length he said, "How has your work been going, Paul?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\fs21 "I gather that I haven't turned out a thing all year."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "That's correct."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 "I'm planning to start again. You might say that Carole \expndtw0 has inspired me."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Splendid," said Castine without intonation of any kind. \expndtw1 "I trust this little mixup over our-ah-shared wife won't interfere with the harmonious artist-dealer relationship we \expndtw-3 used to enjoy?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Not at all," Mueller said. "You'll still get my whole out\-\expndtw1 put. Why the hell should I resent anything you did? Carole \expndtw2 was a free agent when you married her. There's only one little trouble."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\fs21 "Yes?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2342\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "I'm broke. I have no tools, and I can't work without tools, \expndtw-1 and I have no way of buying tools."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "How much do you need?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Two and a half bigs."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Castine said, "Where's your data pickup? I'll make a credit \expndtw1 transfer."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "The phone company disconnected it a long time ago."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Let me give you a check, then. Say, three thousand even? \expndtw2 An advance against future sales." Castine fumbled for a \expndtw-1 while before locating a blank check. "First one of these I've \expndtw0 written in five years, maybe. Odd how you get accustomed \expndtw-1 to spending by telephone. Here you are, and good luck. To \expndtw-3 both of you." He made a courtly, bitter bow. "I hope you'll be \expndtw-2 happy together. And call me up when you've finished a few \expndtw-1 pieces, Paul. I'll send the van. I suppose you'll have a phone \expndtw1 again by then." He went out.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri24\sb202\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "There's a blessing in being able to forget," Nate Hald-\expndtw-3 ersen said. "The redemption of oblivion, I call it. What's hap\-\expndtw-2 pened to San Francisco this week isn't necessarily a disaster. \expndtw1 For some of us, it's the finest thing in the world."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 They were listening to him-at least fifty people, cluster\-\expndtw1 ing near his feet. He stood on the stage of the bandstand in \expndtw-2 the park, just across from the \i De \i0 Young Museum. Shadows \expndtw0 were gathering. Friday, the second full day of the memory \expndtw-2 crisis, was ending. Haldersen had slept in the park last night, \expndtw0 and he planned to sleep there again tonight; he had realized \expndtw2 after his escape from the hospital that his apartment had \expndtw-4 been shut down long ago and his possessions were in storage. \expndtw-1 It did not matter. He would live off the land and forage for \expndtw-2 food. The flame of prophecy was aglow in him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Let me tell you how it was with me," he cried. "Three \expndtw-1 days ago I was in a hospital for mental illness. Some of you \expndtw-3 are smiling, perhaps, telling me I ought to be back there now, \expndtw-1 but no! You don't understand. I was incapable of facing the \expndtw0 world. Wherever I went, I saw happy families, parents and \expndtw1 children, and it made me sick with envy and hatred, so that \expndtw-2 I couldn't function in society. Why? Why? Because my own wife and children were killed in an air disaster in 1991, that's \expndtw0 why, and I missed the plane because I was committing sin that day, and for my sin they died, and I lived thereafter in \expndtw-3 unending torment! But now all that is flushed from my mind. \expndtw-1 I have sinned, and I have suffered, and now I am redeemed \expndtw-2 through merciful oblivion!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 A voice in the crowd called, "If you've forgotten all about \expndtw0 it, how come you're telling the story to us?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li29\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "A good question! An excellent question!" Haldersen felt \expndtw3 sweat bursting from his pores, adrenaline pumping in his \expndtw0 veins. "I know the story only because a machine in the hos\-\expndtw3 pital told it to me, yesterday morning. But it came to me \expndtw1 from the outside, a secondhand tale. The experience of it \expndtw3 within me, the scars, all that has been washed away. The \expndtw0 pain of it is gone. Oh, yes, I'm sad that my innocent family \expndtw1 perished, but a healthy man learns to control his grief after \expndtw-3 eleven years, he accepts \i his \i0 loss and goes on. I was sick, sick \expndtw1 right \i here, \i0 and I couldn't live with my grief, but now I can, I look on it objectively, do you see? And that's why I say there's a blessing in being able to ferget. What about you, \expndtw0 out there? There must be some of you who suffered painful \expndtw-3 losses too, and now can no longer remember them, now have \expndtw1 been redeemed and released from anguish, Are there any? \expndtw-1 Are there? Raise your hands. Who's been bathed in holy ob\-\expndtw1 livion? Who out there knows that he's been cleansed, even if he can't remember what it is he's been cleansed from?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Hands were starting to go up.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\ri34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 They were weeping, now, they were cheering, they were \expndtw2 waving at him. Haldersen felt a little like a charlatan, But \expndtw-2 only a little. He had always had the stuff of a prophet in him, \expndtw0 even while he was posing as a harmless academic, a stuffy \expndtw1 professor of philosophy. He had had what every prophet \expndtw-1 needs, a sharp sense of contrast between guilt and purity, an awareness of the existence of sin. It was that awareness that had crushed him for eleven years. It was that awareness that now drove him to celebrate his joy in public, to seek for companions in liberation-no, for disciples-to found the Church of Oblivion here in Golden Gate Park. The hospital \expndtw0 could have given him these drugs years ago and spared him \expndtw-3 from agony. Bryce had refused, Kamakura, Reynolds, aH the \expndtw1 smooth-talking doctors; they were waiting for more tests, \expndtw-4 experiments on chimpanzees, God knows what. And God had \expndtw0 said, Nathaniel Haldersen has suffered long enough for his \expndtw-2 sin, and so He had thrust a drug into the water supply of San \expndtw1 Francisco, the same drug that the doctors had denied him, \expndtw-1 and down the pipes from the mountains had come the sweet draught of oblivion.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri58\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Drink with me!" Haldersen shouted. "All you who are in \expndtw-4 pain, you who live with sorrow! We'll get this drug ourselves!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2347\sb91\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li120\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 We'll purify our suffering souls! Drink the blessed water, and \expndtw-2 sing to the glory of God who gives us oblivion!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li110\sb192\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Freddy Munson had spent Thursday afternoon, Thursday night, and all of Friday holed up in his apartment with every \expndtw1 communications link to the outside turned off. He neither \expndtw4 took nor made calls, ignored the telescreens\sub t\nosupersub  and had \expndtw1 switched on the xerofax only three times in the thirty-six \expndtw-3 hours.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li106\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He knew that he was finished, and he was trying to decide \expndtw1 how to react to it.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li101\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 His memory situation seemed to have stabilized. He was \expndtw0 still missing only five weeks of market maneuvers. There wasn't any further decay-not that that mattered; he was in \expndtw1 trouble enough-and, despite an optimistic statement last night by Mayor Chase, Munson hadn't seen any evidence \expndtw0 that the memory loss was reversing itself. He was unable to \expndtw1 reconstruct any of the vanished details.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 There was no immediate peril, he knew. Most of the clients \expndtw-3 whose accounts he'd been juggling were wealthy old bats who \expndtw-1 wouldn't worry about their stocks until they got next month's \expndtw0 account statements. They had given him discretionary pow\-ers, which was how he had been table to tap their resources \expndtw-2 for his own benefit in the first place. Up to now, Munson had always been able to complete each transaction within a single \expndtw0 month, so the account balanced for every statement. He had dealt with the problem of the securities withdrawals that the \expndtw-2 statements ought to show by gimmicking the house computer \expndtw2 to delete all such withdrawals provided there was no net \expndtw-3 effect from month to month; that way he could borrow 10,000 \expndtw-4 shares of United Spaceways or Comsat or IBM for two weeks, \expndtw1 use the stock as collateral for a deal of his own, and get it back into the proper account in time with no one the wiser. \expndtw0 Three weeks from now, though, the end-of-the-month state\-\expndtw-1 ments were going to go out showing all of his accounts pep\-\expndtw-2 pered by inexplicable withdrawals, and he was going to catch   \expndtw4 hell.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li82\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The trouble might even start earlier, and come from a \expndtw0 different direction. Since the San Francisco trouble had be\-\expndtw-1 gun, the market had gone down sharply, and he would prob\-ably be getting margin calls on Monday. The San Francisco exchange was closed, of course; it hadn't been able to open Thursday morning because so many of the brokers had been hit hard by amnesia. But New York's exchanges were open,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2429\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 and they had reacted badly to the news from San Francisco, \expndtw-4 probably out of fear that a conspiracy was afoot and the whole \expndtw-1 country might soon be pushed into chaos. When the local \expndtw0 exchange opened again on Monday, if it opened, it would \expndtw-1 most likely open at the last New York prices, or near them, \expndtw-2 and keep on going down. Munson would be asked to put up \expndtw-1 cash or additional securities to cover his loans. He certainly \expndtw-3 didn't have the cash, and the only way he could get additional \expndtw1 securities would be to dip into still more of his accounts, \expndtw-3 compounding his offense; on the other hand, if he didn't meet \expndtw1 the margin calls they'd sell him out and he'd never be able \expndtw0 to restore the stock to the proper accounts, even if he suc\-ceeded in remembering which shares went where,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He was trapped. He could stick around for a few weeks, \expndtw0 waiting for the ax to fall, or he could get out right now. He \expndtw1 preferred to get out right now.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 And go where?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li24\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 Caracas? Reno? Sao Paulo? No, debtor sanctuaries wouldn't \expndtw-1 do him any good, because he wasn't an ordinary debtor. He \expndtw-2 was a thief, and the sanctuaries didn't protect criminals, only \expndtw0 bankrupts. He had to go farther, all the way to Luna Dome. \expndtw-1 There wasn't any extradition from the Moon. There'd be no \expndtw-2 hope of coming back, either.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Munson got on the phone, hoping to reach his travel agent. \expndtw-2 Two tickets to Luna, please. One for him, one for Helene; if she didn't feel like coming, he'd go alone. No, not round trip. \expndtw1 But the agent didn't answer. Munson tried the number sev\-\expndtw-1 eral times. Shrugging, he decided to order direct, and called \expndtw-4 United Spaceways next. He got a busy signal. "Shall we wait\-\expndtw1 list your call?" the data net asked. "It will be three days, at \expndtw2 the present state of the backlog of calls, before we can put it through."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Forget it," Munson said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He had just realized that San Francisco was closed off, \expndtw1 anyway. Unless he tried to swim for it, he couldn't get out \expndtw0 of the city to go to the spaceport, even if he did manage to \expndtw1 buy tickets to Luna. He was caught here until they opened \expndtw0 the transit routes again. How long would that be? Monday, \expndtw-1 Tuesday, next Friday? They couldn't keep the city shut for\-\expndtw-3 ever-could they?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 What it came down to, Munson saw, was a contest of prob\-\expndtw0 abilities. Would someone discover the discrepancies in his \expndtw-4 accounts before he found a way of escaping to Luna, or would \expndtw3 his escape access become available too late? Pat on those\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2342\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 terms, it became an interesting gamble instead of a panic \expndtw-2 situation. He would spend the weekend trying to find a way \expndtw-1 out of San Francisco, and if he failed, he would try to be a stoic about facing what was to come.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Calm, now, he remembered that he had promised to lend \expndtw0 Paul Mueller a few thousand dollars, to help him equip his studio again. Munson was unhappy over having let that slip \expndtw-2 his mind. He liked to be helpful. And, even now, what were \expndtw-4 two or three bigs to him? He had plenty of recoverable assets. \expndtw0 Might as well let Paul have a little of the money before the \expndtw2 lawyers start grabbing it.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 One problem. He had less than a hundred in cash on him- \expndtw-1 who bothered carrying cash?-and he couldn't telephone a \expndtw0 transfer of funds to Mueller's account, because Paul didn't \expndtw-3 have an account with the data net any more, or even a phone. \expndtw0 There wasn't any place to get that much cash, either, at this \expndtw-1 hour of evening, especially with the city paralyzed. And the weekend was coming. Munson had an idea, though. What if \expndtw-5 he went shopping with Mueller tomorrow, and simply charged \expndtw0 whatever the sculptor needed to his own account? Fine, He \expndtw-1 reached for the phone to arrange the date, remembered that \expndtw1 Mueller could not be called, and decided to tell Paul about \expndtw0 it in person. Now. He could use some fresh air, anyway.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He half expected to find robot bailiffs outside, waiting to \expndtw-4 arrest him. But of course no one was after him yet. He walked \expndtw0 to the garage. It was a fine night, cool, starry, with perhaps \expndtw3 just a hint of fog in the east. Berkeley's lights glittered \expndtw0 through the haze, though. The streets were quiet. In time of crisis people stay home, apparently. He drove quickly to \expndtw-3 Mueller's place. Four robots were in front of it. Munson eyed \expndtw-1 them edgily, with the wary look of the man who knows that \expndtw-3 the sheriff will be after him too, in a little while. But Mueller, \expndtw0 when he came to the door, took no notice of the dunners.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Munson said, "I'm sorry I missed connections with you. \expndtw-2 The money I promised to lend you-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "It's all right, Freddy. Pete Castine was here this morning \expndtw-2 and I borrowed the three bigs from him. I've already got my \expndtw0 studio set up again. Come in and look."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Munson entered. "Pete Castine?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "A good investment for him. He makes money if he has \expndtw2 work of mine to sell, right? It's in his best interest to help \expndtw-1 me get started again. Carole and I have been hooking things \expndtw1 up all day."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2102\li2347\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Carole?" Munson said. Mueller showed him into the stu-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 dio. The paraphernalia of a sonic sculptor sat on the floor- \expndtw-4 a welding pen, a vacuum bell, a big texturing vat, some ingots \expndtw2 and strands of wire, and such things, Carole was feeding \expndtw-2 discarded packing cases into the wall disposal unit. Looking \expndtw3 up, she smiled uncertainly and ran her hand through her \expndtw2 long dark hair.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Hello, Freddy."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Everybody good friends again?" he asked; baffled.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "Nobody remembers being enemies," she said. She laughed. \expndtw-4 "Isn't it wonderful to have your memory blotted out like this?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Wonderful," Munson said bleakly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri29\sb197\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Commander Braskett said, "Can I offer you people any water?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Tim Bryce smiled. Lisa Bryce smiled. Ted Kamakura \expndtw1 smiled. Even Mayor Chase, that poor empty husk, smiled. \expndtw-1 Commander Braskett understood those smiles. Even now, \expndtw-2 after three days of close contact under pressure, they thought \expndtw2 he was nuts.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li24\ri29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He had had a week's supply of bottled water brought from \expndtw1 his home to the command post here at the hospital. Every\-body kept telling him that the municipal water was safe to \expndtw2 drink now, that the memory drugs were gone from it; but \expndtw1 why couldn't they comprehend that his aversion to public \expndtw2 water dated back to an era when memory drugs were un-\expndtw-4 known? There were plenty of other chemicals in the reservoir, \expndtw2 after all.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He hoisted bis glass in a jaunty toast and winked at them.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li24\ri48\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Tim Bryce said, "Commander, we'd like you to address the \expndtw2 city again at half past ten this morning. Here's your text,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li10\ri29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Braskett scanned the sheet. It dealt mostly with the re\-\expndtw1 laxation of the order to boil water before drinking it. "You \expndtw0 want me to go on all media," he said, "and tell the people of \expndtw1 San Francisco that it's now safe for them to drink from the \expndtw2 taps, eh? That's a bit awkward for me. Even a figurehead \expndtw-1 spokesman is entitled to some degree of personal integrity."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri43\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Bryce looked briefly puzzled, Then he laughed and took \expndtw1 the text back. "You're absolutely right, Commander. I can't \expndtw-1 ask you to make this announcement, in view of-ah-your \expndtw0 particular beliefs. Let's change the plan. You open the spot \expndtw-2 by introducing me, and \i I'll \i0 discuss the no-boiling thing. Will \expndtw3 that be all right?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2107\li2347\ri62\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Commander Braskett appreciated the tactful way they \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 deferred to his special obsession. "I'm at your service, Doctor," \expndtw0 he said gravely.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri14\sb192\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Bryce finished speaking and the camera lights left him. He said to Lisa, "What about lunch? Or breakfast, or what\-\expndtw1 ever meal it is we're up to now."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Everything's ready, Tim. Whenever you" are."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 They ate together in the holograph room, which had be\-\expndtw-3 come the kitchen of the command post. Massive cameras and \expndtw-1 tanks of etching fluid surrounded them. The others thought\-\expndtw-2 fully left them alone. These brief shared meals were the only \expndtw0 fragments of privacy he and Lisa had had, in the fifty-two \expndtw-3 hours since he had awakened to find her sleeping beside him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 He stared across the table in wonder at this delectable \expndtw-3 blond girl who they said was his wife. How beautiful her soft \expndtw-2 brown eyes were against that backdrop of golden hair! How \expndtw0 perfect the line of her lips, the curve of her earlobes! Bryce knew that no one would object if he and Lisa went off and \expndtw-1 locked themselves into one of the private rooms for a few \expndtw0 hours. He wasn't that indispensable; and there was so much \expndtw-2 he had to begin relearning about his wife. But he was unable \expndtw0 to leave his post. He hadn't been out of the hospital or even \expndtw1 off this floor for the duration of the crisis; he kept himself \expndtw0 going by grabbing the sleep wire for half an hour every six hours. Perhaps it was an illusiop born of too little sleep and too much data, but he had come to believe that the survival of the city depended on him. He had spent his career trying \expndtw1 to heal individual sick minds; now he had a whole city to \expndtw0 tend to.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Tired?" Lisa asked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I'm in that tiredness beyond feeling tired. My mind is so \expndtw0 clear that my skull wouldn't cast a shadow. I'm nearing nir\-vana."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "The worst is over, I think. The city's settling down."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "It's still bad, though. Have you seen the suicide figures?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-8\fs21 "Bad?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Hideous. The norm in San Francisco is 220 a year. We've had close to five hundred in the last two and a half days. And \expndtw0 that's just the reported cases, the bodies discovered, and so \expndtw1 on. Probably we can double the figure. Thirty suicides re\-\expndtw0 ported Wednesday night, about two hundred on Thursday, the same on Friday, and about fifty so far this morning. At \expndtw2 least it seems as if the wave is past its peak."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "But \i why, \i0 Tim?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Some people react poorly to loss. Especially the loss of a \expndtw3 segment of their memories. They're indignant-they're \expndtw0 crashed-they're scared--and they reach for the exit pill. \expndtw-1 Suicide's too easy now, anyway. In the old days you reacted to frustration by smashing the crockery; now you go a dead\-\expndtw3 lier route. Of course, there are special cases. A named \expndtw-3 Montini they fished out of the bay-a professional mnemon-\expndtw-2 ist, who did a trick act in nightclubs, total recall. I can hardly \expndtw0 blame him for caving in. And I suppose there were a lot of \expndtw1 others who kept their business in their heads-gamblers, \expndtw-1 stock-market operators, oral poets, musicians-who might \expndtw2 decide to end it all rather than try to pick up the pieces."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "But if the effects of the drug wear off-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Do they?" Bryce asked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "You said so yourself."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I was making optimistic noises for the benefit of the cit\-\expndtw-3 izens. We don't have any experimental history for these drugs \expndtw-2 and human subjects. Hell, Lisa, we don't even know the dos\-\expndtw1 age that was administered; by the time we were able to get water samples most of the system had been flushed clean, and the automatic monitoring devices at the city pumping \expndtw0 stations were rigged as part of the conspiracy so they didn't \expndtw1 show a thing out of the ordinary. I've got no idea at all if \expndtw0 there's going to be any measurable memory recovery."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "But there is, Tim. I've already started to get some things \expndtw-3 back."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\i\fs21 "What?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Don't scream at me like that! You scared me."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He clung to the edge of the table. "Are you really recover\-\expndtw-4 ing?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "Around the edges. I remember a few things already. \expndtw0 About us."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Like what?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Applying for the marriage license. I'm standing stark \expndtw0 naked inside a diagnostat machine and a voice on the loud\-speaker is telling me to look straight into the scanners. And \expndtw2 I remember the ceremony, a little. Just a small group of \expndtw-4 friends, a civil ceremony. Then we took the pod to Acapulco."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He stared grimly. "When did this start to come back?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "About seven this morning, I guess."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Is there more?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi101\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21    "A bit. Our honeymoon. The robot bellhop who came blun\-\expndtw0 dering in on our wedding night. You don't-"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2102\li2347\ri1152\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Remember it? No. No. Nothing. Blank." \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi106\li38\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "That's all I remember, this early stuff."  \expndtw-2  "Yes, of course," he said. "The older memories are always \expndtw2 the first to return in any form of amnesia. The last stuff in \expndtw-1 is the first to go." His hands were shaking, not entirely from \expndtw0 fatigue. A strange desolation crept over him. Lisa remem\-\expndtw-1 bered. He did not. Was it a function of her youth, or of the chemistry of her brain, or-?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri14\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He could not bear the thought that they no longer shared \expndtw-3 an oblivion. He didn't want the amnesia to become one-sided \expndtw0 for them; it was humiliating not to remember his own mar\-\expndtw-2 riage, when she did. You're being irrational, he told himself. \expndtw0 Physician, heal thyself!\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Let's go back inside," he said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You haven't finished your-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Later."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He went into the command room. Kamakura had phones \expndtw1 in both hands and was barking data into a recorder. The \expndtw-3 screens were alive with morning scenes, Saturday in the city, \expndtw0 crowds in Union Square. Kamakura hung up both calls and said, "I've got an interesting report from Dr. Klein at Let-\expndtw3 terman General. He says they're getting the first traces of \expndtw-1 memory recovery this morning. Women under thirty, only."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Lisa says she's beginning to remember too," Bryce said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Women under thirty," said Kamakura. "Yes. Also the \expndtw2 suicide rate is definitely tapering. We may be starting to \expndtw-2 come out of it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Terrific," Bryce said hollowly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri14\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx4824\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Haldersen was living in a ten-foot-high bubble that one \expndtw-2 of his disciples had blown for him in the middle of Golden \expndtw0 Gate Park, just west of the Arboretum. Fifteen similar bub\-\expndtw-2 bles had gone up around his, giving the region the look of an up-to-date Eskimo village in plastic igloos. The occupants of the camp, aside from Haldersen, were men and women who \expndtw0 had so little memory left that they did not know who they \expndtw-1 were or where they lived. He had acquired \i a \i0 dozen of these \expndtw1 lost ones on Friday, and by late afternoon on Saturday he \expndtw-4 had been joined by some forty more. The news somehow was \expndtw0 moving through the city that those without moorings were \expndtw1 welcome to take up temporary residence with the group in \expndtw-1 the park. It had happened that way during the 1906 disaster, \expndtw-9 too.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The police had been around a few times to check on them. \expndtw1 The first time, a portly lieutenant had tried to persuade the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2347\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 whole group to move to Fletcher Memorial, "That's where \expndtw-1\i most \i0 of the victims are getting treatment, you see. The doc\-\expndtw0 tors give them something, and then we try to identify them and find their next of kin-"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Perhaps it's best for these people to remain away from their next of kin for a while," Haldersen suggested. "Some \expndtw-1 meditation in the park-an exploration of the pleasures of \expndtw-6 having forgotten-that's all we're doing here," He would not \expndtw-2 go to Fletcher Memorial himself except under duress. As for the others, he felt he could do more for them in the park than \expndtw0 anyone in the hospital could.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The second time the police came, Saturday afternoan when \expndtw-1 his group was much larger, they brought a mobile commu\-\expndtw-2 nications system. "Dr. Bryce of Fletcher Memorial wants to \expndtw1 talk to you," a different lieutenant said.  \expndtw-1  Haldersen watched the screen come alive. "Hello, Doctor, \expndtw-2 Worried about me?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "I'm worried about everyone, Nate. What the hell are you \expndtw0 doing in the park?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Founding a new religion, I think."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You're a sick man. You ought to come back here."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "No, Doctor. I'm not sick any more. I've had my therapy \expndtw0 and I'm fine. It was a beautiful treatment: selective obliter\-\expndtw1 ation, just as I prayed for. The entire trauma is gone."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li14\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Bryce appeared fascinated by that; his frowning expres\-\expndtw-5 sion of official responsibility vanished a moment, giving place \expndtw1 to a look of professional concern. "Interesting," he said. \expndtw-3 "We've \i got \i0 people who've forgotten only nouns, and people \expndtw-1 who've forgotten who they married, and people who've for\-gotten how to play the violin. But you're the first one who's \expndtw3 forgotten a trauma. You still ought to come back here, \expndtw-1 though. You aren't the best judge of your fitness to face the \expndtw0 outside environment,"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Oh, but I am," Haldersen said, "I'm doing fine. And my \expndtw-3 people need me."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "Your people?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Waifs. Strays. The total wipeouts."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "We want those people in the hospital, Nate. We want to \expndtw1 get them back to their families."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Is that necessarily a good deed? Maybe some of them can \expndtw-3 use a spell of isolation from their families. These people look \expndtw0 happy, Dr. Bryce. I've heard there are a lot of suicides, but not here. We're practicing mutually supportive therapy. \expndtw-6 Looking for the joys to be found in oblivion. It seems to work,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 Bryce stared silently out of the screen for a long moment. \expndtw4 Then he said impatiently, "All right, have it your own way \expndtw-1 for now. But I wish you'd stop coming on like Jesus and Freud \expndtw3 combined, and leave the park. You're still a sick man, Nate, \expndtw1 and the people with you are in serious trouble, I'll talk to you \expndtw4 later."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li302\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 The contact broke. The police, stymied, left.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li58\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 Haldersen spoke briefly to his people at five o'clock. Then \expndtw4 he sent them out as missionaries to collect other victims. \expndtw3 "Save as many as you can," he said. "Find those who are in complete despair and get them into the park before they can \expndtw2 take their own lives. Explain that the loss of one's past is not \expndtw4 the loss of all things."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi298\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 The disciples went forth. And came back leading those \expndtw2 less fortunate than themselves. The group grew to more than one hundred by nightfall. Someone found the extruder again \expndtw0 and blew twenty more bubbles as shelters for the night. Hald\-\expndtw3 ersen preached his sermon of joy, looking out at the blank \expndtw2 eyes, the slack faces of those whose identities had washed away on Wednesday. "Why give up?" he asked them. "Now \expndtw4 is your chance to create new lives for yourself. The slate is \expndtw2 clean! Choose the direction you will take, define your new selves through the exercise of free will-you are reborn in  h\expndtw0 oly oblivion, all of you. Rest, now, those who have just come \expndtw1 to us. And you others, go forth again, seek out the wanderers, \expndtw2 the drifters, the lost ones hiding in the corners of the city-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 As he finished, he saw a knot of people bustling toward him from the direction of the South Drive. Fearing trouble, \expndtw4 Haldersen went out to meet them; but as he drew close he \expndtw3 saw half a dozen disciples, clutching a scruffy, unshaven, \expndtw2 terrified little man. They hurled him at Haldersen's feet. The \expndtw4 man quivered like a hare ringed by hounds. His eyes glis\-\expndtw2 tened; his wedge of a face, sharp-chinned, sharp of cheek\-bones, was pale.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "It's the one who poisoned the water supply!" someone called. "We found him in a rooming house on Judah Street. \expndtw2 With a stack of drugs in his room, and the plans of the water system, and a bunch of computer programs. He admits it. He \expndtw3 admits it!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033 Haldersen looked down. "Is this true?" he asked. "Are you \expndtw2 the one?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 The man nodded.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "What's your name?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2088\li2366\ri2189\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Won't say. Want a lawyer." \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li62\ri19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Kill him now!" a woman shrieked. "Pull his arms and \expndtw-5 legs off!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li62\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Kill him!" came an answering cry from the other side of \expndtw-1 the group. "Kill him!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li62\ri24\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The congregation, Haldersen realized, might easily turn \expndtw-2 into a mob.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li58\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He said, "Tell me your name, and I'll protect you. Oth\-erwise I can't be responsible."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Skinner," the man muttered miserably.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Skinner. And you contaminated the water supply."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Another nod.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-8\fs21 "Why?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "To get even."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "With whom?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Everyone. Everybody."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Classic paranoid. Haldersen felt pity. Not the others; they were calling out for blood.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 A tall man bellowed, "Make the bastard drink his own \expndtw-4 drug!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "No, kill him! Squash him!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The voices became more menacing. The angry faces came \expndtw-5 closer.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Listen to me," Haldersen called, and his voice cut through \expndtw1 the murmurings. "There'll be no killing here tonight,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "What are you going to do, give him to the police?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li14\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "No," said Haldersen, "We'll hold communion together. \expndtw1 We'll teach this pitiful man the blessings of oblivion, and \expndtw0 then we'll share new joys ourselves. We are human beings. We have the capacity to forgive even the worst of sinners. \expndtw1 Where are the memory drugs? Did someone say you had \expndtw-1 found the memory drugs? Here. Here. Pass it up here. Yea, \expndtw1 Brothers, sisters, let as show this dark and twisted soul the \expndtw-1 nature of redemption. Yes, Yes. Fetch some water, pleasfe. \expndtw-2 Thank you. Here, Skinner. Stand him up, will you? Hold his \expndtw1 arms. Keep him from falling down. Wait a second, until I \expndtw-1 find the proper dose. Yes. Yes, Here, Skinner, Forgiveness, \expndtw-4 Sweet oblivion."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri77\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 It was so good to be working again that Mueller didn't \expndtw-1 want to stop. By early afternoon on Saturday his studio was ready; he had long since worked out the sketches of the first \expndtw0 piece; now it was just a matter of time and effort, and he'd \expndtw-2 have something to show Pete Castine. He worked on far into \expndtw-1 the evening, setting up his armature and running a few tests\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2342\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 of the sound sequences that he proposed to build into the \expndtw-1 piece. He had some interesting new ideas about the sonic \expndtw-3 triggers, the devices that would set off the sound effect when \expndtw1 the appreciator came within range. Carole had to tell him, \expndtw2 finally, that dinner was ready. "I didn't want to interrupt \expndtw-2 you," she said, "but it looks like I have to, or you won't ever \expndtw-5 stop."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Sorry. The creative ecstasy."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Save some of that energy. There are other ecstasies. The \expndtw-1 ecstasy of dinner, first."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li14\sl-197\slmult0\tx3043\cf1\lang1033\fs21 She had cooked everything herself. Beautiful, He went \expndtw1 back to work again afterward, but at half past one in the \expndtw-4 morning Carole interrupted him. He was willing to stop, now. \expndtw-1 He had done an honest day's work, and he was sweaty with \expndtw-2 the noble sweat of a job well done. Two minutes under the \expndtw1 molecular cleanser and the sweat was gone, but the good \expndtw2 ache of virtuous fatigue remained. He hadn't felt this way \expndtw-2 in years.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He woke to Sunday thoughts of unpaid debts.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 'The robots are still there," he said. "They won't go away, \expndtw0 will they? Even though the whole city's at a standstill, no\-\expndtw-1 body's told the robots to quit."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Ignore them," Carole said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "That's what I've been doing. But I can't ignore the debts. \expndtw1 Ultimately there'll be a reckoning."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You're working again, though! You'll have an income \expndtw-3 coming in."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Do you know what I owe?" he asked. "Almost a million. \expndtw-4 If I produced one piece a week for a year, and sold each piece \expndtw-2 for twenty bigs, I might pay everything off. But I can't work \expndtw2 that fast, and the market can't possibly absorb that many Muellers, and Pete certainly can't buy them all for future \expndtw-3 sale."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He noticed the way Carole's face darkened at the mention \expndtw-1 of Pete Castine.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He said, "You know what I'll have to do? Go to Caracas, \expndtw0 like I was planning before this memory thing started. I can \expndtw-1 work there, and ship my stuff to Pete. And maybe in two or \expndtw-2 three years I'll have paid off my debt, a hundred cents on the dollar, and I can start-fresh back here. Do you know if that's possible? I mean, if you jump to a debtor sanctuary, are you blackballed for credit forever, even if you pay off what you \expndtw-12 owe?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2093\li2333\ri1536\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "I don't know," Carole said distantly. \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li53\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\fs21 "I'll find that out later. The important thing is that I'm \expndtw-5 working again, and I've got to go someplace where I can work \expndtw1 without being hounded. And then I'll pay everybody off. \expndtw-1 You'll come with me to Caracas, won't you?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Maybe we won't have to go," Carole said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "But how-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "You should be working now, shouldn't you?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 He worked, and while he worked he made lists of creditors \expndtw-2 in his mind, dreaming of the day when every name on every \expndtw0 list was crossed off. When he got hungry he emerged from the studio and found Carole sitting gloomily in the living \expndtw-2 room. Her eyes were red and puffy-lidded.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "What's wrong?" he asked. "You don't want to go to Ca\-\expndtw-4 racas?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Please, Paul-let's not talk about it-"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "I've really got no alternative. I mean, unless we pick one \expndtw0 of the other sanctuaries. Sao Paulo? Spalato?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 "It isn't that, Paul."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "What, then?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "I'm starting to remember again."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The air went out of him. "Oh," he said.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I remember November, December, January. The crazy \expndtw-2 things you were doing, the loans, the financial juggling. And \expndtw2 the quarrels we had. They were terrible quarrels."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "Oh."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "The divorce. I remember, Paul. It started coming back \expndtw1 last night, but you were so happy I didnt want to say any\-thing. And this morning it's much clearer. You still don't \expndtw-1 remember any of it?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Not a thing past last October."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I do," she said, shakily. "You hit me, do you know that? \expndtw2 You cut my lip. You slammed me against that wall, right \expndtw1 over there, and then you threw the Chinese vase at me and \expndtw0 it broke."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Oh. Oh."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 She went on, "I remember how good Pete was to me, too. I think I can almost remember marrying him, being his wife. \expndtw1 Paul, I'm scared, I feel everything fitting into place in my \expndtw3 mind, and it's as scary as if my mind was breaking into \expndtw-1 pieces. It was so good, Paul, these last few days. It was like \expndtw-2 being a newly wed with you again, But now all the sour parts \expndtw1 are coming back, the hate, the ugliness, it's all alive for me \expndtw0 again. And I feel so bad about Pete. The two of us, Friday, shutting him out. He was a real gentleman about it. But the\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li43\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 fact is that he saved me when I was going under, and I owe \expndtw1 him something for that."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "What do you plan to do?" he asked quietly.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "I think I ought to go back to him, I'm his wife, I've got \expndtw2 no right to stay here."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "But I'm not the same man you came to hate," Mueller \expndtw-4 protested. "I'm the old Paul, the one from last year and before. \expndtw0 The man you loved. All the hateful stuff is gone from me."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Not from me, though. Not now."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 They were both silent,\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I think I should go back, Paul."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Whatever you say."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I think I should. I wish you all kinds of luck, but I can't \expndtw1 stay here. Will it hurt your work if I leave again?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I won't know until you do."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 She told him three or four more times that she felt she \expndtw-2 ought to go back to Castine, and then, politely, he suggested \expndtw-1 that she should go back right now, if that was how she felt, \expndtw1 and she did. He spent half an hour wandering around the \expndtw-2 apartment, which seemed so awfully empty again. He nearly \expndtw0 invited one of the dunning robots in for company. Instead, \expndtw-2 he went back to work. To his surprise, he worked quite well, and in an hour he had ceased thinking about Carole entirely.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi274\ri10\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Sunday afternoon, Freddy Munson set up a credit transfer \expndtw-1 and managed to get most of his liquid assets fed into an old \expndtw0 account he kept at the Bank of Luna. Toward evening, he \expndtw-2 went down to the wharf and boarded a three-man hovercraft \expndtw1 owned by a fisherman willing to take his chances with the \expndtw2 law. They slipped out into the bay without running lights \expndtw0 and crossed the bay on a big diagonal, landing some time \expndtw-1 later a few miles north of Berkeley. Munson found a cab to \expndtw3 take him to the Oakland airport, and caught the midnight \expndtw1 shuttle to L.A., where, after a lot of fancy talking, he was \expndtw-2 able to buy his way aboard the next Luna-bound rocket, lift\-\expndtw1 ing off at ten o'clock Monday morning. He spent the night in the spaceport terminal. He had taken with him nothing \expndtw-4 except the clothes he wore; his fine possessions, his paintings, \expndtw2 his suits, his Mueller sculptures, and all the rest remained \expndtw-1 in his apartment, and ultimately would be sold to satisfy the \expndtw0 judgments against him. Too bad. He knew that he wouldn't \expndtw1 be coming back to Earth again, either, not with a larceny \expndtw-1 warrant or worse awaiting him. Also too bad. It had been so \expndtw-2 nice for so long, here, and who needed a memory drug in the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2357\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 water supply? Munson had only one consolation. It was an article of his philosophy that sooner or later, no matter how \expndtw-1 neatly you organized your life, fate opened a trapdoor un\-\expndtw2 derneath your feet and catapulted you into something un\-\expndtw0 known and unpleasant. Now he knew that it was true, even \expndtw-3 for him.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li53\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Too, too bad. He wondered what his chances were of start\-\expndtw-2 ing over up there. Did they need stockbrokers on the Moon?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li29\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Addressing the citizenry on Monday night, Commander \expndtw0 Braskett said, 'The committee of public safety is pleased to \expndtw-3 report that we have come through the worst part of the crisis. \expndtw-1 As many of you have already discovered, memories are be\-\expndtw-2 ginning to return. The process of recovery will be more swift \expndtw0 for some than others, but great progress has been made. Ef\-fective at six \scaps am \scaps0 tomorrow, access routes to and from San \expndtw-3 Francisco will reopen. There will be normal mail service and \expndtw0 many businesses will return to normal. Fellow citizens, we \expndtw-2 have demonstrated once again the real fiber of the American \expndtw-1 spirit. The Founding Fathers must be smiling down upon us \expndtw-3 today! How superbly we avoided chaos, and how beautifully \expndtw0 we pulled together to help one another in what could have \expndtw1 been an hour of turmoil and despair!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "Dr. Bryce requests me to remind you that anyone still \expndtw-1 suffering severe impairment of memory-especially those \expndtw-2 experiencing loss of identity, confusion of vital functions, or \expndtw1 other disability-should report to the emergency ward at Fletcher Memorial Hospital. Treatment is available there, \expndtw2 and computer analysis is at the service of those unable to \expndtw-1 find their homes and loved ones. I repeat-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Tim Bryce wished that the good commander hadn't slipped \expndtw1 in that plug for the real fiber of the American spirit, espe\-\expndtw-3 cially in view of the necessity to invite the remaining victims \expndtw0 to the hospital with his next words. But it would be unchar\-\expndtw-1 itable to object. The old spaceman had done a beautiful job \expndtw1 all weekend as the Voice of the Crisis, and some patriotic \expndtw0 embellishments now were harmless.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The crisis, of course, was nowhere near as close to being \expndtw1 over as Commander Braskett's speech had suggested, but \expndtw-3 public confidence had to be buoyed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Bryce had the latest figures. Suicides now totaled 900 since the start of trouble on Wednesday; Sunday had been \expndtw-1 an unexpectedly bad day. At least 40,000 people were still \expndtw0 unaccounted for, although they were tracing 1,000 an hour \expndtw3 and getting them back to their families or else into an in-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 tensive-care section. Probably 760,000 more continued to \expndtw-3 have memory difficulties. Most children had fully recovered, and many of the women were mending; but older people, and \expndtw-1 men in general, had experienced scarcely any memory re\-\expndtw2 capture. Even those who were nearly healed had no recall \expndtw-2 of events of Tuesday and Wednesday, and probably never \expndtw-3 would; for large numbers of people, though, big blocks of the \expndtw-1 past would have to be learned from the outside, like history \expndtw-4 lessons.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Lisa was teaching him their marriage that way.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri86\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The trips they had taken-the good times, the bad-the \expndtw-2 parties, the friends, the shared dreams-she described every\-\expndtw0 thing, as vividly as she could, and he fastened on each an\-\expndtw2 ecdote, trying to make it a part of himself again. He knew \expndtw1 it was hopeless, really. He'd know the outlines, never the \expndtw0 substance. Yet it was probably the best he could hope for.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He was so horribly tired, suddenly.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 He said to Kamakura, "Is there anything new from the \expndtw0 park yet? That rumor that Haldersen's actually got a supply \expndtw-2 of the drug?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri91\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Seems to be true, Tim. The word is that he and his friends \expndtw1 caught the character who spiked the water supply, and re\-\expndtw-1 lieved him of a roomful of various amnesifacients,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "We've got to seize them," Bryce said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri91\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Kamakura shook his head. "Not just yet. Police are afraid \expndtw-1 of any actions in the park. They say it's a volatile situation."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "But if those drugs are loose-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Let me worry about it, Tim. Look, why don't you and Lisa ' \expndtw-2 go home for a while? You've been here without a break since \expndtw-1 Thursday."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "So have-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri91\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "No. Everybody else has had a breather. Go on, now. We're \expndtw-1 over the worst. Relax, get some real sleep, make some love. \expndtw0 Get to know that gorgeous wife of yours again a little."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri96\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Bryce reddened. "I'd rather stay here until I feel I can \expndtw-2 afford to leave."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri91\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Scowling, Kamakura walked away from him to confer \expndtw-3 with Commander Braskett. Bryce scanned the screens, trying \expndtw-2 to figure out what was going on in the park. A moment later, \expndtw1 Braskett walked over to him,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "Dr. Bryce?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "What?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You're relieved of duty until sundown Tuesday."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Wait a second-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 That's an order, Doctor. I'm chairman of the committee \expndtw-3 of public safety, and I'm telling you to get yourself out of this \expndtw0 hospital. You aren't going to disobey an order, are you?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Listen, Commander-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Out, No mutiny, Bryce. Out! Orders."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Bryce tried to protest, but he was too weary to put up \expndtw-1 much of a. fight. By noon, he was on his way home, soupy-\expndtw-3 headed with fatigue. Lisa drove. He sat quite \i still,, \i0 struggling \expndtw0 to remember details of his marriage. Nothing came.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 She put him to bed. He wasn't sure how long he slept; but \expndtw2 then he felt her against him, warm, satin-smooth,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Hello," she said. "Remember me?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Yes," he lied gratefully. "Oh, yes, yes, yes!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri14\sb187\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Working right through the night, Mueller finished his \expndtw-2 armature by dawn on Monday. He slept a while, and in early \expndtw-1 afternoon began to paint the inner strips of loudspeakers on: \expndtw1 a thousand speakers to the inch, no more than a few mole\-cules thick, from which the sounds of his sculpture would \expndtw2 issue in resonant fullness. When that was done, he paused \expndtw1 to contemplate the needs of his sculpture's superstructure, \expndtw-2 and by seven that night was ready to move to the next phase. \expndtw-3 The demons of creativity possessed him; he saw no reason to \expndtw0 eat and scarcely any to sleep.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri19\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 At eight, just as he was getting up momentum for the long \expndtw0 night's work, he heard a knock at the door. Carole's signal. \expndtw-2 He had disconnected the doorbell, and robots didn't have the \expndtw-3 sense to knock. Uneasily, he went to the door. She was there.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "So?" he said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "So I came back. So it starts all .over."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "What's going on?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Can I come in?" she asked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "I suppose. I'm working, but come in."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri38\sb10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 She said, "I talked it all over with Pete, We both decided \expndtw-1 I ought to go back to you."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You aren't much for consistency, are you?" he asked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri38\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "I have to take things as they happen. When I lost my memory, I came to you. When I remembered things again, \expndtw-1 I felt I ought to leave, I didn't \i want \i0 to leave. I felt I \i ought \i0 to leave. There's a difference."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sb10\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Really," he said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri62\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Really. I went to Pete, but I didn't want to be with him. \expndtw0 I wanted to be here."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-202\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li48\ri432\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "I hit you and made your lip bleed. I threw the Ming vase \expndtw-1 at you."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "It wasn't Ming, it was K'ang-hsi."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri432\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Pardon me. My memory still isn't so good. Anyway, I did \expndtw1 terrible things to you, and you hated me enough to want a \expndtw-4 divorce. So why come back?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri437\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "You were right, yesterday. You aren't the man I came to \expndtw1 hate. You're the old Paul."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "And if my memory of the past nine months returns?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri432\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Even so," she said. "People change. You've been through \expndtw-2 hell and come out the other side. You're working again. You \expndtw-1 aren't sullen and nasty and confused. We'll go to Caracas, or wherever you want, and you'll do your work and pay your \expndtw0 debts, just as you said yesterday."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-202\slmult0\tx4032\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "And Pete?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "He'll arrange an annulment. He's being swell about it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri446\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Good old Pete," Mueller said. He shook his head. "How \expndtw0 long will the neat happy ending last, Carole? If you think \expndtw-4 there's a chance you'll be bounding back in the other direction \expndtw-3 by Wednesday, say so now. I'd rather not get involved again, \expndtw2 in that case."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "No chance. None."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Unless I throw the Ch'ien-lung vase at you."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "K'ang-hsi," she said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri456\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Yes. K'ang-hsi." He managed to grin. Suddenly he felt \expndtw1 the accumulated fatigue of these days register all at once. \expndtw-2 "I've been working too hard," he said. "An orgy of creativity \expndtw0 to make up for lost time. Let's go for a walk,"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Fine," she said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri456\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 They went out, just as a dunning robot was arriving. "Top \expndtw-1 of the evening to you, sir," Mueller said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Mr. Mueller, I represent the accounts receivable depart-        j ment of the Acme Brass and-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "See my attorney," he said.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Fog was rolling in off the sea now. There were no stars. \expndtw-1 The downtown lights were invisible. He and Carole walked        \sub\i t \expndtw2\nosupersub\i0 west, toward the park. He felt strangely light-headed, not        f \expndtw1 entirely from lack of sleep. Reality and dream had merged; \expndtw5 these were unusual days. They entered the park from the \expndtw7 Panhandle and strolled toward the museum area, arm in \expndtw3 arm, saying nothing much to one another. As they passed       | \expndtw-3 the conservatory Mueller became aware of a crowd up ahead, thousands of people staring in the direction of the music shell.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-202\slmult0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5\fs21 "What do you think is going on?" Carole asked. Mueller \expndtw-1 shrugged. They edged through the crowd,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Ten minutes later they were close enough to see the stage. \expndtw0 A tall, thin, wild-looking man with unruly yellow hair was \expndtw-3 on the stage. Beside him was a small, scrawny man in ragged \expndtw1 clothing, and there were a dozen other flanking them, car\-\expndtw-2 rying ceramic bowls.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "What's happening?" Mueller asked someone in the crowd.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Religious ceremony."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Eh?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4\fs21 "New religion. Church of Oblivion. That's the head \expndtw1 prophet up there. You haven't heard about it yet?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Not a thing."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Started around Friday. You see that ratty-looking char\-\expndtw1 acter next to the prophet?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\fs21 "Yes."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "He's the one that put the stuff in the water supply. He \expndtw-1 confessed and they made him drink his own drug. Now he \expndtw2 doesn't remember a thing, and he's the assistant prophet. \expndtw0 Craziest damn stuff!"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "And what are they doing up there?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "They've got the drug in those bowls. They drink and for\-\expndtw-1 get some more. They drink and forget some more."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The gathering fog absorbed the sounds of those on the \expndtw1 stage. Mueller strained to listen. He saw the bright eyes of \expndtw-3 fanaticism; the alleged contaminator of the water looked pos\-\expndtw1 itively radiant. Words drifted out into the night.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Brothers and sisters . .. the joy, the sweetness of forget\-\expndtw-2 ting . . . come up here with us, take communion with us \expndtw31 ... \expndtw2 oblivion ,.. redemption ,.. even the most wicked . . . forget \expndtw3 . . . forget. . ."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri43\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 They were passing the bowls around on stage, drinking, \expndtw-2 smiling. People were going up to receive communion, taking \expndtw-4 a bowl, sipping, nodding happily. Toward the rear of the stage \expndtw-2 the bowls were being refilled by three sober-looking func\-\expndtw0 tionaries.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Mueller felt a chill. He suspected that what had been born \expndtw-1 in this park during this week would endure, somehow, long after the crisis of San Francisco had become part of history; \expndtw2 and it seemed to him that something new and frightening \expndtw0 had been loosed upon the land.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw9\fs21 "Take ,,, drink ... forget..," the prophet cried.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 And the worshipers cried, \i "Take . . . drink . . . forget..."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li235\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The bowls were passed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "What's it all \i about?" \i0 Carole whispered.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Take . . . drink . . . forget . . ."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\i "Take . . . drink . . . forget . . ."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 "Blessed is sweet oblivion."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li298\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\i "Blessed is sweet oblivion."\cf0\lang2057\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Sweet it is to lay down the burden of one's soul."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sb5\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\i "Sweet it is to lay down the burden of one's soul."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Joyous it is to begin anew."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-206\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\i "Joyous it is to begin anew."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 The fog was deepening. Mueller could barely see the aquarium building just across the way. He clasped his hand tightly around Carole's and began to think about getting out of the park.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 He had to admit, though, that these people might have hit \expndtw3 on something true. Was he not better off for having taken a chemical into his bloodstream, and thereby shedding a por\-\expndtw2 tion of his past? Yes, of course. And yet-to mutilate one's mind this way, deliberately, happily, to drink deep of obliv\-\expndtw-7 ion-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri5\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "Blessed are those who are able to forget," the prophet \expndtw-1 said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri14\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\i "Blessed are those who are able to forget," \i0 the crowd roared \expndtw2 in response.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 "Blessed are those-who are able to forget," Mueller heard \expndtw4 his own voice cry. And he began to tremble. And he felt \expndtw2 sudden fear. He sensed the power of this strange new move\-\expndtw5 ment, the gathering strength of the prophet's appeal to un\-\expndtw4 reason. It was time for a new religion, maybe, a cult that \expndtw3 offered emancipation from all inner burdens. They would \expndtw6 synthesize this drug and turn it out by the ton, Mueller \expndtw4 thought, and repeatedly dose cities with it, so that everyone \expndtw3 could be converted, so that everyone might taste the joys of \expndtw2 oblivion. No one will be able to stop them. After a while, no \expndtw-1 one will \i want \i0 to stop them. And so we'll go on, drinking deep, \expndtw2 until we're washed clean of all pain and all sorrow, of all sad \expndtw3 recollection, we'll sip a cup of kindness and part with auld \expndtw2 lang syne, we'll give up the griefs we carry around, and we'll \expndtw3 give up everything else, identity, soul, self, mind. We will \expndtw4 drink sweet oblivion. Mueller shivered. Turning suddenly, \expndtw3 tugging roughly at Carole's arm, he pushed through the joy\-\expndtw5 ful worshiping crowd, and hunted somberly in the fog-\expndtw4 wrapped night, trying to find some way out of the park.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-206\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li426\ri1536\sl-475\slmult0\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw12\b\fs27 Shark Ship \par
\expndtw-21\b0 CM. KORNBLUTH\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\sb422\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 It was the spring swarming of the plankton; every man and \expndtw-3 woman and most of the children aboard Grenville's Convoy \expndtw1 had a job to do, As the seventy-five gigantic sailing ships \expndtw0 ploughed their two degrees of the South Atlantic, the fluid that foamed beneath their cutwaters seethed also with life. \expndtw-6 In the few weeks of the swarming, in the few meters-of surface \expndtw2 water where sunlight penetrated in sufficient strength \i to \expndtw-2\i0 trigger photosynthesis, microscopic spores burst into micro\-\expndtw-1 scopic plants, were devoured by minute animals which in \expndtw-3 turn were swept into the maws of barely visible sea monsters \expndtw2 almost a tenth of an inch from head to tail; these in turn \expndtw-5 were fiercely pursued and gobbled in shoals by the fierce little \expndtw1 brit, the tiny herring and shrimp that could turn a hundred \expndtw-1 miles of green water to molten silver before your eyes.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Through the silver ocean of the swarming the Convoy \expndtw-4 scudded and tacked in great controlled zigs and zags, reaping \expndtw-3 the silver of the sea in the endlessly reeling bronze nets each, \expndtw-2 ship payed out behind.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\ri19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The Commodore in \i Grenville \i0 did not sleep during the \expndtw1 swarming; he and his staff dispatched cutters to scout the \expndtw-5 swarms, hung on the meteorologists' words, digested the end\-\expndtw0 less reports from the scout vessels, and toiled through the \expndtw-1 night to prepare the dawn signal. The mainmast flags might \expndtw-4 tell the captains "Convoy course five degrees right," or "Two \expndtw-3 degrees left," or only "Convoy course; no change." On those dawn signals depended the life for the next six months of the \expndtw-6 million and a quarter souls of the Convoy. It had not happened \expndtw0 often, but it had happened that a succession of blunders re\-\expndtw-1 duced a convoy's harvest below the minimum necessary \i to \i0 sustain life. Derelicts were sometimes sighted and salvaged \expndtw-3 from such convoys; strong-stomached men and women were\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2342\sl-202\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 needed for the first boarding and clearing away of human debris. Cannibalism occurred, an obscene thing one had nightmares about.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li29\ri82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The seventy-five captains had their own particular pur\-gatory to endure throughout the harvest, the Sail-Seine \expndtw2 Equation. It was their job to balance the push on the sails \expndtw-1 and the drag of the ballooning seines so that push exceeded drag by just the number of pounds that would keep the ship \expndtw0 on course and in station, given every conceivable variation \expndtw-4 of wind force and direction, temperature of water, consistency \expndtw0 of brit, and smoothness of hull. Once the catch was salted \expndtw-3 down it was customary for the captains to converge on \i Gren-\expndtw-1 ville \i0 for a roaring feast by way of letdown.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li10\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Rank had its privileges. There was no such relief for the \expndtw0 captains' Net Officers or their underlings in Operations and \expndtw-2 Maintenance, or for their Food Officers under whom served the Processing and Stowage people. They merely worked, \expndtw1 streaming the nets twenty-four hours a day, keeping them \expndtw-1 bellied out with lines from mast and outriding gigs, keeping \expndtw1 them spooling over the great drum amidships, tending the blades that had to scrape the brit from the nets, without \expndtw0 damaging the nets, repairing the damage when it did occur; \expndtw1 and without interruption of the harvest, flash-cooking the \expndtw0 part of the harvest to be cooked, drying the part to be dried, pressing oil from the harvest as required, and stowing what \expndtw-2 was cooked and dried and pressed where it would not spoil, \expndtw-1 where it would not alter the trim of the ship, where it would not be pilfered by children. This went on for weeks after the \expndtw0 silver had gone thin and patchy against the green, and after \expndtw1 the silver had altogether vanished.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The routines of many were not changed at all by the \expndtw1 swarming season. The blacksmiths, the sailmakers, the car\-\expndtw-1 penters, the watertenders, to a degree the storekeepers, func\-\expndtw0 tioned as before, tending to the fabric of the ship, renewing, \expndtw-2 replacing, reworking. The ships were things of brass, bronze, \expndtw0 and unrusting steel. Phosphor-bronze strands were woven \expndtw2 into net, lines, and cables; cordage, masts and hull were \expndtw0 metal; all were inspected daily by the First Officer and his \expndtw-1 men and women for the smallest pinhead of corrosion. The smallest pinhead of corrosion could spread; it could send a ship to the bottom before it had done spreading, as the chap\-\expndtw1 lains were fond of reminding worshipers when the ships \expndtw-2 rigged for church on Sundays. To keep the hellish red of iron \expndtw2 rust and the sinister blue of copper rust from invading, the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 squads of oilers were always on the move, with oil distilled from the catch. The sails and the clothes alone could not be preserved; they wore out. It was for this that the felting ma\-\expndtw-2 chines down below chopped wornout sails and clothing into \expndtw0 new fibers and twisted and rolled them with kelp and glue from the catch into new felt for new sails and clothing.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 While the plankton continued to swarm twice a year, \expndtw-2 Grenville's Convoy could continue to sail the South Atlantic, from ten-mile limit to ten-mile limit. Not one of the seventy-\expndtw0 five ships in the Convoy had an anchor.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The Captains' Party that followed the end of Swarming \expndtw-5 283 was slow getting under way. McBee, whose ship was Port \expndtw0 Squadron 19, said to Salter of Starboard Squadron 30: "To \expndtw1 be frank, I'm too damned exhausted to care whether I ever \expndtw0 go to another party, but I didn't want to disappoint the Old \expndtw-2 Man."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The Commodore, trim and bronzed, not showing his eighty \expndtw1 years, was across the great cabin from them greeting new arrivals.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Salter said: "You'll feel differently after a good sleep. It \expndtw2 was a great harvest, wasn't it? Enough weather to make it \expndtw-3 tricky and interesting. Remember 276? \i That \i0 was the one that \expndtw-1 wore me out. A grind, going by the book. But this time, on \expndtw-2 the fifteenth day my foretopsail was going to go about noon, \expndtw-1 big rip in her, but I needed her for my S-S balance. What to \expndtw-2 do? I broke out a balloon spinnaker-now wait a minute, let \expndtw-3 me tell it first before you throw the book at me-and pumped \expndtw-4 my fore trim tank out. Presto! No trouble; foretopsail replaced \expndtw0 in fifteen minutes."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li14\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 McBee was horrified. "You could have lost your net!" \expndtw-3 "My weatherman absolutely ruled out any sudden squalls." \expndtw-1 "Weatherman. You could have lost your net!" \expndtw4 Salter studied him. "Saying that once was thoughtless, \expndtw-2 McBee. Saying it twice is insulting. Do you think I'd gamble \expndtw0 with twenty thousand lives?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 McBee passed his hands over his tired face. \ldblquote I'm sorry\rdblquote  \expndtw-2 he said. "I told you I was exhausted. Of course under special \expndtw0 circumstances, it can be a safe maneuver." He walked to a \expndtw1 porthole for a glance at his own ship, the nineteenth in the \expndtw-3 long echelon behind \i Grerwille. \i0 Salter stared after him, "Los\-\expndtw-4 ing one's net," was a phrase that occurred in several proverbs; \expndtw2 it stood for abysmal folly. In actuality a ship that lost its \expndtw-2 phosphor-bronze wire mesh was doomed, and quickly. One \expndtw0 could improvise with sails or try to jury-rig a net out of the\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2342\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 remaining rigging, but not well enough to feed twenty thou\-\expndtw0 sand hands, and no fewer than that were needed, for main\-\expndtw-2 tenance. Grenville's Convoy had met a derelict which lost its \expndtw1 net back before 240; children still told horror stories about it, how the remnants of port and starboard watches, mad to \expndtw-3 a man, were at war, a war of vicious night forays with knives and clubs.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Salter went to the bar and accepted from the Commodore's \expndtw1 steward his first drink of the evening, a steel tumbler of \expndtw-2 colorless fluid distilled from a fermented mash of sargassum \expndtw-4 weed. It was about forty percent alcohol and tasted pleasantly \expndtw-6 of iodides.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He looked up from his sip and his eyes widened. There \expndtw-2 was a man in captain's uniform talking with the Commodore \expndtw-1 and he did not recognize his face. But there had been no \expndtw-3 promotions lately!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The Commodore saw him looking and beckoned him over. \expndtw-2 He saluted and then accepted the old man's handclasp, "Cap\-tain Slater," the Commodore said, "my youngest and rashest, \expndtw1 and my best harvester; Salter, this is Captain Degerand of the White Fleet."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Salter frankly gawked. He knew perfectly well that Gren\-ville's Convoy was far from sailing alone upon the seas. On \expndtw-1 watch he had beheld distant sails from time to time. He was \expndtw1 aware that cruising the two-degree belt north of theirs was \expndtw0 another convoy and that in the belt south of theirs was still \expndtw-3 another, in fact that the seaborne population of the world was \expndtw-1 a constant one billion, eighty million. But never had he ex\-\expndtw1 pected to meet face to face any of them except the one and a quarter million who sailed under Grenville's flag,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Degerand was younger than he, all deeply tanned skin \expndtw-1 and flashing pointed teeth. His uniform was perfectly ordi\-\expndtw0 nary and very queer. He understood Salter's puzzled look. "It's woven cloth," he said. 'The White Fleet was launched \expndtw-1 several decades after Grenville's. By then they had machin\-\expndtw1 ery to reconstitute fibers suitable for spinning and they \expndtw0 equipped us with it. It's six of one and half a dozen of the \expndtw2 other. I think our sails may last longer than yours, but the \expndtw-1 looms require a lot of skilled labor when they break down."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li235\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The Commodore had left them.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Are we very different from you?" Salter asked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Degerand said: "Our differences are nothing. Against the dirt men we are brothers-blood brothers."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2098\li2338\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The term "dirt men" was discomforting; the juxtaposition \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 with "blood" more so. Apparently he was referring to whoever \expndtw1 it was that lived on the continents and islands-a shocking \expndtw-5 breach of manners, of honor, of faith. The words of the Charter \expndtw1 circled through Salter's head: "... return for the sea and its \expndtw0 bounty... renounce and abjure the land from which we-" \expndtw-2 Salter had been ten years old before he knew that there \i were \expndtw0\i0 continents and islands. His dismay must have shown on his \expndtw-7 face.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 "They have doomed us," the foreign captain said. "We can\-\expndtw-1 not refit. They have sent us out, each upon our two degrees of ocean in larger or smaller convoys as the richness of the \expndtw-5 brit dictated, and they have cut us off. To each of us will come \expndtw1 the catastrophic storm, and bad harvest, the lost net, and death."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 It was Salter's impression that Degerand had said the \expndtw0 same words many times before, usually to large audiences.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 The Commodore's talker boomed out: "Now hear this!" His \expndtw0 huge voice filled the stateroom easily; his usual job was to \expndtw-2 roar through a megaphone across a league of ocean, supple\-menting flag and lamp signals, "Now hear this!" he boomed. \expndtw-1 "There's tuna on the table-big fish for big sailors'."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 A grinning steward whisked a felt from the sideboard, and \expndtw1 there by Heaven it lay! A great baked fish as long as your leg, smoking hot and trimmed with kelp! A hungry roar \expndtw-2 greeted it; the captains made for the stack of trays and began \expndtw1 to file past the steward, busy with knife and steel.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Salter marveled to Degerand: \i "I \i0 didn't dream there were \expndtw-2 any left that size. When you think of the tons of brit that old-\expndtw-1 timer must have gobbled!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 The foreigner said darkly: "We slew the whales, the \expndtw-2 sharks, the perch, the cod, the herring-everything that used the sea but us. They fed on brit and one another and concen\-\expndtw1 trated it in firm savory flesh like that, but we were jealous \expndtw-2 of the energy squandered in the long food chain; we decreed \expndtw1 that the chain would stop with the link brit-to-man."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Salter by then had filled a tray. "Brit's more reliable," he \expndtw-2 said. "A convoy can't take chances on fisherman's luck." He \expndtw0 happily bolted a steaming mouthful.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Safety is not everything," Degerand said. He ate, more \expndtw-1 slowly than Salter. "Your Commodore said you were a rash seaman."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li5\ri106\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "He was joking. If he believed that, he would have to re\-\expndtw-4 move me from command."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2102\li2333\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 The Commodore walked up to them, patting his mouth \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 with a handkerchief and beaming "Surprised, eh?" he de\-\expndtw-4 manded. "Glasgow's lookout spotted that big fellow yesterday half a kilometer away. He signaled me and I told him to lower \expndtw-1 and row for him. The boat crew sneaked up while he was \expndtw-5 browsing and gaffed him clean. Very virtuous of us. By killing \expndtw0 him we economize on brit and provide a fitting celebration \expndtw-3 for my captains. Eat hearty! It may be the last we'll ever see."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Degerand rudely contradicted his senior officer. "They \expndtw-2 can't be wiped out clean, Commodore, not exterminated. The \expndtw0 sea is deep. Its genetic potential cannot be destroyed We merely make temporary alterations of the feeding balance."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Seen any sperm whale lately?" the Commodore asked, \expndtw-3 raising his white eyebrows. "Go get yourself another helping, \expndtw0 captain, before it's gone." It was a dismissal; the foreigner \expndtw-1 bowed and went to the buffet.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The Commodore asked: "What do you think of him?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "He has some extreme ideas," Salter said.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "The White Fleet appears to have gone bad," the old man \expndtw0 said. "That fellow showed up on a cutter last week in the \expndtw-2 middle of harvest wanting my immediate, personal attention. \expndtw-1 He's on the staff of the White Fleet Commodore. I gather \expndtw1 they're all like him. They've got slack; maybe rust has got \expndtw0 ahead of them, maybe they're overbreeding. A ship lost its \expndtw-1 net and they didn't let it go. They cannibalized rigging from \expndtw1 the whole fleet to make a net for it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw16\fs21 "But-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "But-but-but. Of course it was the wrong thing and now \expndtw0 they're all suffering. Now they haven't the stomach to draw lots and cut their losses." He lowered his voice. "Their idea is some sort of raid on the Western Continent, that America thing, for steel and bronze and whatever else they find not \expndtw-4 welded to the deck. It's nonsense, of course, spawned by a few silly-clever people on the staff. The crews will never go along \expndtw1 with it. Degerand was sent to invite us in!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri19\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Salter said nothing for a while and then: "I certainly hope \expndtw1 we'll have nothing to do with it."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri24\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "I'm sending him back at dawn with my compliments, and \expndtw-1 a negative, and my sincere advice to his Commodore'that he \expndtw-2 drop the whole thing before his own crew hears of it and has \expndtw-3 him bowspritted." The Commodore gave him a wintry smile. "Such a reply is easy to make, of course, just after concluding \expndtw1 an excellent harvest. It might be more difficult to signal a \expndtw-4 negative if we had a couple of ships unnetted and only enough\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2347\sl-202\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 catch in salt to feed sixty per cent of the hands. Do you think you could give the hard answer under those circumstances?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I think so, sir."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The Commodore walked away, his face enigmatic. Salter thought he knew what was going en. He had been given one \expndtw2 small foretaste of top command. Perhaps he was being \expndtw-5 groomed for Commodore-not to succeed the old man, surely, \expndtw-1 but his successor.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 McBee approached, full of big fish and drink. "Foolish \expndtw0 thing I said," he stammered. "Let's have drink, forget about it, eh?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li278\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He was glad to.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Damn fine seaman'" McBee yelled after a couple more drinks. "Best little captain in the Convoy! Not a scared old \expndtw-3 crock like poor old McBee, 'fraid of every puff of wind!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 And then he had to cheer up MeBee until the party began \expndtw1 to thin out. McBee fell asleep at last and Salter saw him to \expndtw-6 his gig before boarding his own for the long row to the bobbing \expndtw0 masthead lights of his ship.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li10\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Starboard Squadron 30-was at rest in the night. Only the \expndtw-3 slowly moving oil lamps of the women on their ceaseless rust \expndtw-1 patrol were alive. The brit catch, dried, came to some seven \expndtw0 thousand tons. It was a comfortable margin over the 5670 \expndtw-2 tons needed for six months full rations before the autumnal \expndtw3 swarming and harvest. The trim tanks along the keel had \expndtw0 been pumped almost dry by the ship's current prison popu\-\expndtw-1 lation as the cooked and dried and salted cubes were stored \expndtw1 in the glass-lined warehouse tier; the gigantic vessel rode \expndtw-2 easily on a swelling sea before a Force One westerly breeze.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Salter was exhausted. He thought briefly of having his \expndtw0 cox'n whistle for a bosun's chair so that he might be hauled \expndtw1 at his ease up the fifty-yard cliff that was the "hull before \expndtw-2 them, and dismissed the idea with regret. Rank hath its priv\-\expndtw-3 ileges and also its obligations. He stood up in the gig, jumped \expndtw0 for the ladder, and began the long climb. As he passed the \expndtw-1 portholes of the cabin tiers he virtuously kept eyes front, on \expndtw0 the bronze plates of the hull inches from Ms nose. Many \expndtw-1 couples in the privacy of their double cabins would be cele\-\expndtw-3 brating the end of the back-breaking, night-and-day toil. One \expndtw-1 valued privacy aboard the ship; one's own 648 cubic feet of \expndtw-4 cabin, one's own porthole, acquired an almost religious mean\-\expndtw0 ing, particularly after the weeks of swarming cooperative \expndtw-3 labor.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2102\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Taking care not to pant, he finished the climb with a floor-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 ish, springing onto the flush deck. There was no audience. \expndtw0 Feeling a little ridiculous and forsaken, he walked aft in the \expndtw1 dark with only the wind and the creak of the rigging in his \expndtw2 ears. The five great basket masts strained silently behind \expndtw-3 their breeze-filled sails; he paused a moment beside Wednes\-\expndtw-1 day mast, huge as a redwood, and put his hands on it to feel \expndtw2 the power that vibrated in its steel latticework.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Six intent women went past, their hand lamps sweeping \expndtw-1 the deck; he jumped, though they never noticed him. They \expndtw1 were in something like a trance state while on their tour of \expndtw-2 duty. Normal courtesies were suspended for them; with their \expndtw-1 work began the job of survival. One thousand women, five percent of the ship's company, inspected night and day for \expndtw0 corrosion. Seawater is a vicious solvent and the ship had to \expndtw1 live in it; fanaticism was the answer.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li10\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 His stateroom above the rudder waited; the hatchway to \expndtw0 it glowed a hundred feet down the deck with the light of a \expndtw2 wasteful lantern. After harvest, when the tanks brimmed \expndtw1 with oil, one type acted as though the tanks would brim \expndtw-3 forever. The captain wearily walked around and over a dozen \expndtw0 stay ropes to the hatchway and blew out the lamp. Before \expndtw-1 descending he took a mechanical look around the deck; all \expndtw-4 was well-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Except for a patch of paleness at the fantail.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Will this day never end?" he asked the darkened lantern \expndtw-1 and went to the fantail. The patch was a little girl in a night\-\expndtw1 dress wandering aimlessly over the deck, her thumb in her \expndtw-2 mouth. She seemed to be about two years old and was more \expndtw1 than half asleep. She could have gone over the railing in a \expndtw0 moment; a small wail, a small splash-\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He picked her up like a feather. "Who's your daddy, prin\-\expndtw-2 cess?" he asked.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Dunno," she grinned. The devil she didn't! It was too dark \expndtw1 to read her ID necklace and he was too tired to light the \expndtw-2 lantern. He trudged down the deck to the crew of inspectors. \expndtw-1 He said to their chief: "One of you get this child back to her \expndtw1 parents' cabin," and held her out.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The chief was indignant. "Sir, we are on watch!"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "File a grievance with the Commodore if you wish. Take \expndtw0 the child."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 One of the rounder women did, and made cooing noises while her chief glared. "Bye-bye, princess," the captain said. \expndtw-4 "You ought to be keel-hauled for this, but I'll give you another chance."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2347\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li58\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Bye-bye," the little girl said, waving, and the captain \expndtw0 went yawning down the hatchway to bed.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 His stateroom was luxurious by the austere standards of \expndtw2 the ship. It was equal to six of the standard nine-by-nine \expndtw-4 cabins in volume, or to three of the double cabins for couples. \expndtw-2 These however had something he did not. Officers above the \expndtw-1 rank of lieutenant were celibate. Experience had shown that \expndtw1 this was the only answer to nepotism, and nepotism was a \expndtw-5 luxury which no convoy could afford. It meant, sooner or later, \expndtw-2 inefficient command. Inefficient command meant, sooner or \expndtw1 later, death.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Because he thought he would not sleep, he did not.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Marriage. Parenthood. What a strange business it must \expndtw0 bet To share a bed with a wife, a cabin with two children \expndtw-2 decently behind their screen for sixteen years... what did one \expndtw0 talk about in bed? His last mistress had hardly talked at all, except with her eyes. When these showed signs that was falling in love with him, Heaven knew why, he broke with \expndtw2 her as quietly as possible and since then irritably rejected \expndtw-4 the thought of acquiring a successor. That had been two years \expndtw0 ago when he was thirty-eight and already beginning to feel \expndtw1 like a cabin-crawler fit only to be dropped over the fantail \expndtw0 into the wake. An old lecher, a roue, a \i user \i0 of women. Of \expndtw-2 course she had talked a little; what did they have in common \expndtw-3 to talk about? With a wife ripening beside him, with children \expndtw0 to share, it would have been different. That pale, tall, quiet girl deserved better than he could give; he hoped she was decently married now in a double cabin, perhaps already heavy with the first of her two children.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 A whistle squeaked above his head; somebody was blowing \expndtw1 into one of the dozen speaking tubes clustered against the \expndtw-4 bulkhead. Then a push-wire popped open the steel lid of Tube \expndtw0 Seven, Signals, He resignedly picked up the flexible reply \expndtw1 tube and said into it: "This is the captain. Go ahead."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\i\fs21 "Grenville \i0 signals Force Three squall approaching from \expndtw3 astern, sir."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li10\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Force Three squall from astern. Turn out the fore-star\-board watch. Have them reef sail to Condition Charlie."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Fore-starboard watch, reef sail to Condition Charlie, aye-aye."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Execute."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "Aye-aye, sir." The lid of Tube Seven, Signals, popped shut. \expndtw1 At once he heard the distant, penetrating shrill of the pipe, \expndtw-2 the faint vibration as one-sixth of the deck crew began to stir\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 in their cabins, awaken, hit the deck bleary-eyed, begin,to trample through the corridors and up the hatchways to the \expndtw-5 deck. He got up himself and pulled on clothes, yawning. Reef\-\expndtw-2 ing from Condition Fox to Condition Charlie was no serious \expndtw2 matter, not even in the dark, and Walters on watch was a \expndtw-1 good officer. But he'd better have a look.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Being flush-decked, the ship offered him no bridge. He conned her from the "first top" of Friday mast, the rearmost \expndtw-4 of her five. The "first top" was a glorified crow's nest fifty feet \expndtw0 up the steel basketwork of that great tower; it afforded him a view of all masts and spars in one glance.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 He climbed to his command post too far gone for fatigue. A full moon now lit the scene, good. That much less chance \expndtw0 of a green topman stepping on a ratline that would prove to \expndtw-1 be a shadow and hurtling two hundred feet to the deck. That \expndtw1 much more snap in the reefing; that much sooner it would \expndtw0 be over. Suddenly he was sure he would be able to sleep if he ever got back to bed again.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 He turned for a look at the bronze, moonlit heaps of the great net on the fantail. Within a week it would be cleaned \expndtw-1 and oiled, within two weeks stowed below in the cable tier, \expndtw0 safe from wind and weather.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The regiments of the fore-starboard watch swarmed up the \expndtw0 masts from Monday to Friday, swarmed out along the spars as bosun's whistles squealed out the drill-\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The squall struck.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Wind screamed and tore at him; the captain flung his arms \expndtw-1 around a stanchion. Rain pounded down upon his head and \expndtw1 the ship reeled in a vast, slow curtsey, port to starboard. \expndtw-3 Behind him there was a metal sound as the bronze net shifted \expndtw-2 inches sideways, back.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The sudden clouds had blotted out the moon; he could not \expndtw0 see the men who swarmed along the yards but with sudden \expndtw-1 terrible clarity he felt through the soles of his feet what they \expndtw0 were doing. They were clawing their way through the sail-\expndtw-1 reefing drill, blinded and deafened by sleety rain and wind. \expndtw0 They were out of phase by now; they were no longer trying \expndtw-1 to shorten sail equally on each mast; they were trying to get \expndtw0 the thing done and descend. The wind screamed in hi\i s \i0 face \expndtw-1 as he turned and clung. Now they were ahead of the job on \expndtw-3 Monday and Tuesday masts, behind the job on Thursday and \expndtw1 Friday masts.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 So the ship was going to pitch. The wind would catch it \expndtw-1 unequally and it would kneel in prayer, and cutwater plung-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li62\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 ing with a great, deep stately obeisance down into the fathoms \expndtw0 of ocean, the stern soaring slowly, ponderously, into the air until the topmost rudder-trunnion streamed \i a \i0 hundred-foot cascade into the boiling froth of the wake.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li53\ri5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 That was half the pitch. It happened, and the captain \expndtw0 clung, groaning aloud. He heard above the screaming wind loose gear rattling on the deck, clashing forward in an ava\-\expndtw-1 lanche. He heard a heavy clink at the stern and bit his lower \expndtw0 lip until it ran with blood that the tearing cold rain flooded from his chin.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li43\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The pitch reached its maximum and the second half began, \expndtw2 after interminable moments when she seemed frozen at a \expndtw0 five-degree angle forever. The cutwater rose, rose, rose, the \expndtw-1 bowsprit blocked out horizon stars, the loose gear counter\-\expndtw0 charged astern in a crushing tide of bales, windlass cranks, \expndtw1 water-breakers, stilling coils, steel sun reflectors, lashing \expndtw-1 tails of bronze rigging-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Into the heaped piles of the net, straining at its retainers \expndtw-2 on the two great bollards that took root in the keel itself four \expndtw-1 hundred feet below. The energy of the pitch hurled the belly \expndtw1 of the net open crashing, into the sea. The bollards held for \expndtw-1 a moment.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri38\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 A retainer cable screamed and snapped like a man's back, \expndtw0 and then the second cable broke. The roaring slither of the \expndtw1 bronze links thundering over the fantail shook the ship.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri43\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The squall ended as it had come; the clouds scudded on \expndtw-3 and the moon bared itself, to shine on a deck scrubbed clean. \expndtw0 The net was lost.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri29\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Captain Salter looked down the fifty feet from the rim of \expndtw2 the crow's nest and thought: I should jump. It would be \expndtw1 quicker that way.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri53\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 But he did not. He slowly began to climb down the ladder \expndtw0 to the bare deck.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri43\sb418\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Having no electrical equipment, the ship was necessarily \expndtw1 a representative republic rather than a democracy. Twenty \expndtw-2 thousand people can discuss and decide only with the aid of \expndtw-1 microphones, loudspeakers, and rapid calculators to balance the ayes and noes. With lungpower the only means of com\-\expndtw-2 munication and an abacus in a clerk's hands the only tallying \expndtw-1 device, certainly no more than fifty people can talk together \expndtw-4 and make sense, and there are pessimists who say the number\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2294\sb91\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 is closer to five than fifty. The Ship's Council that met at \expndtw0 dawn on the fantail numbered fifty.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri58\sb5\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 It was a beautiful dawn; it lifted the heart to see salmon \expndtw-1 sky, iridescent sea, spread white sails of the Convoy ranged \expndtw0 in a great slanting line across sixty miles of oceanic blue.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri43\sb5\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 It was the kind of dawn for which one lived-a full catch \expndtw-1 salted down, the water-butts filled, the evaporators trickling \expndtw-3 from their thousand tubes nine gallons each sunrise to sunset, \expndtw1 wind enough for easy steerageway, and a pretty spread of \expndtw2 sail. These were the rewards. One hundred and forty-one \expndtw-2 years ago Grenville's Convoy had been launched at Newport \expndtw0 News, Virginia, to claim them.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri14\sb5\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Oh, the high adventure of the launching! The men and \expndtw-5 women who had gone,aboard thought themselves heroes, con\-\expndtw-3 querors of nature, self-sacrificers for the glory of \scaps nemet; \scaps0 But \expndtw1\scaps nemet \scaps0 meant only Northeastern Metropolitan Area, one dense warren that stretched from Boston to Newport, built \expndtw0 up and dug down, sprawling westward, gulping Pittsburgh -\expndtw1 without a pause, beginning to peter out past Cincinnati.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri53\sb5\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The first generation asea clung and sighed for the culture \expndtw-3 of \scaps nemet, \scaps0 consoled itself with its patriotic sacrifice; any relief \expndtw1 was better than none at all, and Grenville's Convoy had \expndtw-4 drained one and a quarter million population from the huddle. \expndtw-1 They were immigrants into the sea; like all immigrants they \expndtw-4 longed for the Old Country. Then the second generation. Like \expndtw1 all second generations they had no patience with the old \expndtw2 people or their tales. \i This \i0 was real, this sea, this gale, this rope! Then the third generation. Like all third generations \expndtw1 it felt a sudden desperate hollowness and lack of identity. \expndtw-2 What was real? Who are we? What is \scaps nemet \scaps0 which we have \expndtw1 lost? But by then grandfather and grandmother could only \expndtw-1 mumble vaguely; the culture heritage was gone, squandered \expndtw2 in three generations, spent forever. As always, the fourth \expndtw1 generation did not care. \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri67\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 And those who sat in counsel on the fantail were members \expndtw1 of the fifth and sixth generations. They knew all there was \expndtw0 to know about life. Life was the hull and masts, the sail and \expndtw-1 rigging, the net and the evaporators. Nothing more. \i Nothing \expndtw2 less. \i0 Without masts there was no life. Nor was there life without the net.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri77\sl-192\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The Ship's Council did. not command; command was re\-served to the captain and his officers. The Council governed, \expndtw-4 and on occasion tried criminal cases. During the black Winter \expndtw0 Without Harvest eighty years before it had decreed euthan\-\expndtw-1 asia for all persons over sixty-three years of age and for one\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2342\sb5\sl-192\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 out of twenty of the other adults aboard. It had rendered \expndtw-2 bloody judgment on the ringleaders of Peale's Mutiny. It had \expndtw-4 sent them into the wake and Peale himself had been bowsprit-\expndtw-1 ted, given the maritime equivalent of crucifixion. Since then \expndtw0 no megalomaniacs had decided to make life interesting for \expndtw-3 their shipmates, so Peale's long agony had served its purpose.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li48\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The fifty of them represented every department of the ship \expndtw1 and every age group. If there was wisdom aboard, it was \expndtw-1 concentrated there on the fantail. But there was little to say.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li48\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The eldest of them, Retired Sailmaker Hodgins, presided. \expndtw0 Venerably bearded, still strong of voice, he told them:\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li34\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Shipmates, our accident has come. We are dead men. Decency demands that we do not spin out the struggle and \expndtw0 sink into-unlawful eatings. Reason tells us that we cannot survive. What I propose is an honorable voluntary death for \expndtw-2 us all, and the legacy sf our ship's fabric to be divided among \expndtw1 the remainder of the Convoy at the discretion of the Com\-\expndtw-4 modore."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He had little hope of his old man's viewpoint prevailing. \expndtw0 The Chief Inspector rose at once. She had only three words to say: \i "Not my children."\cf0\lang2057\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Women's heads nodded grimly and men's with resignation. \expndtw-3 Decency and duty and common sense were all very well until \expndtw2 you ran up against that steel bulkhead. \i Not my children.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 A brilliant young chaplain asked: "Has the question ever \expndtw-1 been raised as to whether a collection among the fleet might not provide cordage enough to improvise a net?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Captain Salter should have answered that, but he, mur\-derer of the twenty thousand souls in his care, could not \expndtw0 speak. He nodded jerkily at his signals officer.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Lieutenant Zwingli temporized by taking out his signals \expndtw-4 slate and pretending to refresh his memory. He said: "At 0035 \expndtw-1 today a lamp signal was made to \i Grenville \i0 advising that our \expndtw-4 net was lost. \i Grenville \i0 replied as follows: 'Effective now, your \expndtw-1 ship no longer part of Convoy. Have no recommendations. \expndtw0 Personal sympathy and regrets. Signed, Commodore.'"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Captain Salter found his voice. "I've sent a couple of other \expndtw-1 messages to \i Grenville \i0 and to our neighboring vessels. They \expndtw1 do not reply. This is as it should be. We are no longer part \expndtw-4 of the Convoy. Through our own-lapse-we have become a \expndtw-2 drag on the Convoy. We cannot look to it for help. I have no word of condemnation for anybody. This is how life is."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 And then a council member spoke whom Captain Salter \expndtw2 knew in another role. It was Jewel Flyte, the tall, pale girl\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2347\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 who had been his mistress two years ago. She must be serving \expndtw2 as an alternate, he thought, looking at her with new eyes. \expndtw-3 He did not know she was even that; he had avoided her since \expndtw1 then. And no, she was not married; she wore no ring. And \expndtw0 neither was her hair drawn back in the semiofficial style of \expndtw-3 the semiofficial voluntary celibates, the superpatriots (or sim\-\expndtw-2 ply sex-shy people, or dislikers of children) who surrendered their right to reproduce for the good of the ship (or their own \expndtw-1 convenience). She was simply a girl in the uniform of a-a \expndtw-2 what? He had to think hard before he could match the badge \expndtw1 over her breast to a department. She was Ship's Archivist with her crossed key and quill, an obscure clerk and shelf-\expndtw-4 duster under-far under!-the Chief of Yeomen Writers. She \expndtw-1 must have been elected alternate by the Yeomen in a spasm of sympathy for her blind-alley career.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li5\ri19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "My job," she said in her calm, steady voice, "is chiefly to \expndtw0 search for precedents in the Log when unusual events must \expndtw-4 be recorded and nobody recollects offhand the form in which \expndtw-1 they should be recorded. It is one of those provoking jobs \expndtw-3 which must be done by someone but which cannot absorb the \expndtw1 full time of a person. I have therefore had many free hours \expndtw-1 of actual working time. I have also remained unmarried and \expndtw-3 am not inclined to sports or games. I tell you this so you may \expndtw0 believe me when I say that during the past two years I have \expndtw1 read the Ship's Log in its entirety."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 There was a little buzz. Truly an astonishing, and an as\-\expndtw-2 tonishingly pointless, thing to do! Wind and weather, storms \expndtw0 and calms, messages and meetings and censuses, crimes, \expndtw2 trials, and punishments of a hundred and forty-one years; \expndtw-1 what a bore!\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri24\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Something I read," she went on, "may have some bearing \expndtw-2 on our dilemma." She took a slate from her pocket and read: "Extract from the Log dated June 30, Convoy Year 72. "The \expndtw-1 Shakespeare-Joyce-Melville Party returned after dark in the \expndtw-3 gig. They had not accomplished any part of their mission. Six \expndtw-4 were dead of wounds; all bodies were recovered. The remain\-\expndtw-1 ing six were mentally shaken but responded to our last atar-actics. They spoke of a new religion ashore and its conse\-\expndtw-3 quences on population. I am persuaded that we seabornes can \expndtw1 no longer relate to the continentals. The clandestine shore \expndtw0 trips will cease.' The entry is signed 'Scolley, Captain.'"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri43\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 A man named Scolley smiled for a brief proud moment. \expndtw6 His ancestor! And then like the others he waited for the\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sl-202\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 extract to make sense. Like the others he found that it would \expndtw-4 not do so,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Captain Salter wanted to speak and wondered how to ad\-\expndtw0 dress her. She had been "Jewel" and they all knew it; could he call her "Yeoman Flyte" without looking like, being, a \expndtw-2 fool? Well, if he was fool enough to lose his net he was fool \expndtw1 enough to be formal with an ex-mistress. "Yeoman Flyte," \expndtw0 he said, "where does the extract leave us?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 In her calm voice she told them all: "Penetrating the few \expndtw-2 obscure words, it appears to mean that until Convoy Year 72 \expndtw1 the Charter was regularly violated, with the connivance of successive captains. I suggest that we consider violating it \expndtw-1 once more, to survive."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The Charter, It was a sort of ground swell of their ethical \expndtw2 life, learned early, paid homage every Sunday when they \expndtw-2 were rigged for church. It was inscribed in phosphor-bronze plates on Monday mast of every ship at sea, and the wording \expndtw1 was always the same.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li504\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 IN \i RETURN FOR THE SEA AND ITS BOUNTY WE \expndtw-1 RENOUNCE AND ABJURE FOR OURSELVES AND \expndtw5 OUR DESCENDANTS THE LAND FROM WHICH \expndtw-3 WE SPRUNG: FOR THE COMMON GOOD OF \expndtw3 WE SET SAIL FOREVER.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri38\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 At least half of them were unconsciously murmuring the \expndtw-6 words.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Retired Sailmaker Hodgins rose, shaking, "Blasphemy!" \expndtw-1 he said. "The woman should be bowspritted!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The chaplain said thoughtfully: "I know a little more about \expndtw0 what constitutes blasphemy than Sailmaker Hodgins, I be\-\expndtw-1 lieve, and assure you that he is mistaken. It is a superstitious \expndtw2 error to believe that there is any religious sanction for the \expndtw-6 Charter. It is no ordinance of God but a contract between men."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "It is a Revelation!" Hodgins shouted. "A Revelation! It is \expndtw0 the newest testament! It is God's finger pointing the way to the clean hard life at sea, away from the grubbing and filth, from the overbreeding and the sickness!"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 That was a common view.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\i\fs21 "What about my children?" \i0 demanded the Chief Inspector. \expndtw-1 "Does God want them to starve or be-be-" She could not \expndtw0 finish the question, but the last unspoken word of it rang in \expndtw2 all their minds.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li230\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\i Eaten.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2342\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Aboard some ships with an accidental preponderance of the elderly, aboard other ships where some blazing person\-ality generations back had raised the Charter to a powerful \expndtw-4 cult, suicide might have been voted. Aboard other ships where \expndtw3 nothing extraordinary had happened in six generations, \expndtw0 where things had been easy and the knack and tradition of hard decision making had been lost, there might have been \expndtw-1 confusion and inaction and the inevitable degeneration into savagery. Aboard Salter's ship the Council voted to send a \expndtw0 small party ashore to investigate. They used every imagi\-nable euphemism to describe the action, took six hours to \expndtw2 make up their minds, and sat at last on the fantail cringing \expndtw1 a little, as if waiting for a thunderbolt.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The shore party would consist of Salter, Captain; Plyte, Archivist; Pemberton, Junior Chaplain; Graves, Chief In\-\expndtw-6 spector.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 Salter climbed to his conning top on Friday mast, consulted \expndtw-2 a chart from the archives, and gave the order through speak\-ing tube to the tiller gang: "Change course red four degrees."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The repeat came back incredulously.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "Execute," he said. The ship creaked as eighty men heaved \expndtw1 the tiller; imperceptibly at first the wake began to curve \expndtw-1 behind them.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Ship Starboard 30 departed from its ancient station; across \expndtw-1 a mile of sea the bosun's whistles could be heard from Star\-\expndtw0 board 31 as she put on sail to close the gap.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "They might have signaled something." Salter thought, dropping his glasses at last on his chest. But the masthead \expndtw-3 of Starboard 31 remained bare of all but its commission pen\-\expndtw1 nant.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li10\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He whistled up his signals officer and pointed to their own \expndtw-1 pennant. "Take that thing down," he said hoarsely, and went \expndtw-2 below to his cabin.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The new course would find them at last riding off a place \expndtw-1 the map described as New York City.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri53\sb192\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 Salter issued what he expected would be his last commands \expndtw-2 to Lieutenant Zwingli; the whaleboat was waiting in its dav\-\expndtw2 its; the other three were in it.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "You'll keep your station here as well as you're able," said \expndtw-2 the captain. "If we live, we'll be back in a couple of months. \expndtw2 Should we not return, that would be a potent argument \expndtw-1 against beaching the ship and attempting to live off the con\-\expndtw1 tinent-but it will be your problem then and not mine."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2342\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li53\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 They exchanged salutes. Salter sprang into the whaleboat, \expndtw1 signaled the deck hands standing by at the ropes, and the \expndtw-1 long creaking descent began.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Salter, Captain, age forty; unmarried \i ex offlcio; \i0 parents \expndtw3 Clayton Salter, master instrument maintenanceman, and \expndtw-3 Eva Romano, chief dietician; selected from dame school age ten for A Track training; seamanship school eertifieate at age \expndtw-1 sixteen, navigation certificate at age twenty, First Lieuten\-\expndtw-8 ants School age twenty-four, commissioned ensign age twenty-\expndtw1 four, lieutenant at thirty, commander at thirty-two, com\-\expndtw-2 missioned captain and succeeded to command of Ship Star\-\expndtw0 board 30 the same year.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Flyte, Archivist, age twenty-five; unmarried; parents Jo-\expndtw1 sepy Flyte, entertainer, and Jessie Waggoner, entertainer; \expndtw-3 completed dame school age fourteen, B Track training; Yeo\-\expndtw-2 man's School certificate at age sixteen, Advanced Yeoman's \expndtw-1 School certificate at age eighteen; efficiency rating, 3.5.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li29\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Pemberton, Chaplain, age thirty; married to Riva Shields, \expndtw-3 nurse; no children by choice; parents Will Pemberton, master \expndtw1 distiller-watertender, and Agnea Hunt, felter-machinist's \expndtw-1 mate; completed dame school age twelve, B Track training; \expndtw2 Divinity School Certificate at age twenty; midstarboard \expndtw0 watch curate, later fore-starboard chaplain.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Graves, Chief Inspector, age thirty-four; married to George Omany, blacksmith third class; two children; completed dame \expndtw-1 school age fifteen; Inspectors School Certificate at age six\-\expndtw1 teen; inspector third class, second class, first class, master \expndtw-2 inspector, then chief; efficiency rating, 4.0; three commend\-\expndtw-1 ations.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Versus the Continent of North America.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri38\sb202\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 They all rowed for an hour; then a shoreward breeze came up and Salter stepped the mast. "Ship your oars," he said and \expndtw-5 then wished he dared countermand the order. Now they would \expndtw0 have time to think of what they were doing.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 The very water they sailed was different in color from the \expndtw1 deep water they knew, and different in its way of moving. \expndtw-1 The life in it-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li250\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Great God!" Mrs. Graves cried, pointing astern,\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 It was a huge fish, half the size of their boat. It surfaced \expndtw-1 lazily and slipped beneath the water in an uninterrupted arc, \expndtw0 They had seen steel-gray skin, not scales, and a great slit of a mouth.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi643\li-403\ri58\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx2328\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Slater said, shaken: "Unbelievable. Still, I suppose in the \cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 unfished offshore waters a few of the large forms survive. And the intermediate sizes to feed them- And foot-long \expndtw-2 smaller sizes to feed \i them, \i0 and-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Was it mere arrogant presumption that Man had per\-\expndtw0 manently changed the life of the sea?\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The afternoon sun slanted down and the tip of Monday \expndtw1 mast sank below the horizon's curve astern; the breeze that \expndtw-1 filled their sail bowled them toward a mist which wrapped \expndtw-2 vague concretions they feared to study too closely. A shad\-\expndtw1 owed figure huge as a mast with one arm upraised; behind \expndtw-2 it blocks and blocks of something solid.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "This is the end of the sea," said the captain.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Mrs. Graves said what- she would have said if a silly un-\expndtw0 derinspector had reported to her blue rust on steel: "Non\-sense!" Then, stammering: "I beg your pardon, captain. Of \expndtw-1 course you are correct."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "But it sounded strange," Chaplain Pemberton said help\-\expndtw0 fully. "I wonder where they all are?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Jewel Flyte said in her quiet way: "We should have passed \expndtw-1 over the discharge from waste tubes before now. They used \expndtw2 to pump their waste through tubes under the sea and dis\-\expndtw-1 charge it several miles out. It colored the water and it stank. \expndtw2 During the first voyaging years the captains knew it was \expndtw-2 time to tack away from land by the color and the bad smell."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "They must have improved their disposal system by now," \expndtw1 Salter said. "It's been centuries."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 His last word hung in the air.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The chaplain studied the mist from the bow. It was im\-\expndtw-1 possible to deny it; the huge thing was an Idol. Rising from the bay of a great city, an Idol, and a female one-the worst \expndtw0 kind! "I thought they had them only in High Places," he \expndtw-1 muttered, discouraged.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li10\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Jewel Flyte understood. "I think it has no religious sig\-\expndtw-4 nificance," she said. "It's a sort of-huge piece of scrimshaw."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Mrs. Graves studied the vast thing and saw in her mind \expndtw-1 the glyphic arts as practiced at sea: compacted kelp shaved \expndtw1 and whittled into little heirloom boxes, miniature portrait \expndtw-2 busts of children. She decided that Yeoman Flyte had a dan\-gerously wild imagination. Scrimshaw? Tall as a mastF\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri43\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 There should be some commerce, thought the captain. \expndtw-4 Boats going to and fro. The Place ahead was plainly an island, \expndtw-3 plainly inhabited; goods and people should be going to it and \expndtw-1 coming from it. Gigs and cutters and whaleboats should be \expndtw0 plying this bay and those two rivers; at that narrow bit they\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2342\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 should be lined up impatiently waiting, tacking and riding \expndtw2 under sea anchors and furled sails. There was nothing but a few white birds that shrilled nervously at their solitary \expndtw-4 boat.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li53\ri10\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The blocky concretions were emerging from the haze; they \expndtw-2 were sunset-red cubes with regular black eyes dotting them; \expndtw-1 they were huge dice laid down side by side by side, each as \expndtw0 large as a ship, each therefore capable of holding twenty \expndtw-2 thousand persons.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li288\sl-202\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Where were they all?\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\ri19\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The breeze and the tide drove them swiftly through the \expndtw-4 neck of water where a hundred boats should be waiting, "Furl \expndtw1 the sail," said Salter. "Out oars,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li38\ri24\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 With no sounds but the whisper of the oarlocks, the cries \expndtw1 of the white birds, and the slapping of the wavelets, they \expndtw-2 rowed under the shadow of the great red dice to a dock, one \expndtw0 of a hundred teeth projecting from the island's rim.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li29\ri14\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Easy the starboard oars," said Salter; "handsomely the \expndtw-3 port oars. Up oars. Chaplain, the boat hook," He had brought \expndtw2 them to a steel ladder; Mrs. Graves gasped at the red rust \expndtw1 thick on it. Salter tied the painter to a corroded brass ring. \expndtw-1 "Come along," he said, and began to climb.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri29\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 When the four of them stood on the iron-plated dock Pem-\expndtw0 berton, naturally, prayed. Mrs. Graves followed the prayer with half her attention or lees; the rest she could riot divert \expndtw-1 from the shocking slovenliness of the prospect-rust, dust, \expndtw0 litter, neglect. What went on in the mind of Jewel Flyte her \expndtw-4 calm face did not betray. And the captain scanned those black \expndtw-2 windows a hundred yards inboard-no; inland!-and waited and wondered.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri38\sb5\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 They began to walk to them at last, Salter leading. The sensation under foot was strange and dead, tiring to the arches and the thighs.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri48\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 The huge red dice were not as insane close-up as they had \expndtw-1 appeared from the distance. They were thousand-foot cubes \expndtw-3 of brick, the stuff that lined ovens. They were set back within squares of green, cracked surfacing which Jewel Flyte named \expndtw-1 "cement" or "concrete" from some queer corner of her eru\-\expndtw-2 dition.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri48\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 There was an entrance, and written over it: \scaps the herbert \expndtw-7 brownell jr. memorial houses. \scaps0 A bronze plaque shot a pang \expndtw1 of guilt through them all as they thought of The Compact, \expndtw0 but its words were different and ignoble.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2338\sb91\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li130\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs18 NOTICE TO ALL TENANTS \cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li494\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs19 A project Apartment is a Privilege and not a Right. \expndtw1 Daily Inspection is the Cornerstone of the Project. At-\expndtw0 tendance at Least Once a Week at the Church or Syn\-\expndtw-4 agogue of your Choice is Required for Families wishing \expndtw-2 to remain in Good Standing; Proof of Attendance must \expndtw-4 be presented on Demand. Possession of Tobacco or Al\-cohol will be considered Prime Facie Evidence of Un-\expndtw-2 desirability. Excessive Water Use, Excessive Energy \expndtw-3 Use and Food Waste will be Grounds for Desirability \expndtw-2 Review. The speaking of Languages other than Amer\-\expndtw-3 ican by persons over the Age of Six will be considered Prima Facie Evidence of Nonassimilability, though this \expndtw-1 shall not be construed to prohibit Religious Ritual in Languages other than American.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\ri67\sb192\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Below it stood another plaque in paler bronze, an after\-thought:\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li490\ri547\sb197\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-9 None of the foregoing shall be construed to condone the \expndtw-7 Practice of Depravity under the Guise of Religion by \expndtw-5 Whatever Name, and all Tenants are warned that any \expndtw-4 Failure to report the Practice of Depravity will result \expndtw-6 in summary Eviction and Denunciation.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li10\ri72\sb192\sl-202\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Around this later plaque some hand had painted with crude \expndtw6 strokes of a tar brush a sort of anatomical frame at which \expndtw5 they stared in wondering disgust.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 At last Pemberton said: "They were a devout people." No\-\expndtw4 body noticed the past tense, it sounded so right.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 "Very sensible," said Mrs. Graves. "No nonsense about \expndtw4 them."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Captain Salter privately disagreed. A ship run with such \expndtw3 dour coercion would founder in a month; could land people \expndtw5 be that much different?\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 Jewel Flyte said nothing, but her eyes were wet. Perhaps \expndtw6 she was thinking of scared little human rats dodging and \expndtw2 twisting through the inhuman maze of great fears and minute \expndtw3 rewards.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri77\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw5 "After- all," said Mrs. Graves, "it's nothing but a Cabin Tier. We have cabins and so had they. Captain, might we \expndtw3 have a look?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw4 "This \i is a \i0 reconnaissance," Salter shrugged. They went \expndtw2 into a littered lobby and easily recognized an elevator which\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qj\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li53\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 had long ago ceased to operate; there were many hand-run dumbwaiters at sea.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 A gust of air flapped a sheet of printed paper across the \expndtw2 chaplain's ankles; he .stooped to pick it up with a kind of \expndtw1 instinctive outrage-leaving paper unsecured, perhaps to \expndtw-1 blow overboard and be lost forever to the ship's economy! \expndtw1 Then he flushed at his silliness. "So much to unlearn," he said, and spread the paper to look at it. A moment later he crumpled it in a ball and hurled it from him as hard and as \expndtw0 far as he could and wiped his hands with loathing on his jacket. His face was utterly shocked.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The others stared. It was Mrs. Graves who went for the \expndtw-1 paper.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Don't look at it," said the chaplain.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li283\sl-197\slmult0\tx5424\cf1\lang1033\i\fs21 "I \i0 think she'd better," Saiter said.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li38\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The maintenancewoman spread the paper, studied it, and \expndtw-3 said: "Just some nonsense. Captain, what do you make of it?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 It was a large page torn from a book, and on it were simply \expndtw-1 polychrome drawings and some lines of verse in the style of \expndtw-2 a child's first reader. Saiter repressed a shocked guffaw. The \expndtw0 picture was of a little boy and a little girl quaintly dressed, \expndtw1 locked in murderous combat, using teeth and nails. \i "Jack \expndtw2 and Jill went up the hill" \i0 said the text, \i "to fetch a pail of \expndtw-2 water. She threw Jack down and broke his crown; it was a \expndtw-3 lovely slaughter."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li19\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Jewel Flyte took the page from his hands. All she said \expndtw0 was, after a long pause: "I suppose they couldn't start them too young," She dropped the page and she too wiped her \expndtw-2 hands.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Come along," the captain said. "We'll try the stairs."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li5\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The stairs were dust, rat dung, cobwebs, and two human \expndtw-4 skeletons. Murderous, knuckledusters fitted loosely the bones \expndtw1 of the two right hands, Saiter hardened himself to pick up \expndtw-1 one of the weapons but could not bring himself to try it on. Jewel Flyte said apologetically: "Please be careful, captain. It might be poisoned. That seems to be the way they were."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri72\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 Saiter froze. By God, but the girl was right! Delicately, \expndtw2 handling the spiked steel thing by its edges, he held it up. \expndtw0 Yes; stains-it \i would \i0 be stained, and perhaps with poison \expndtw2 also. He dropped it into the thoracic of one skeleton \expndtw-3 said: "Come on." They climbed in quest of a dusty light from \expndtw-4 above; it was a doorway onto a corridor of many doors. There was evidence of fire and violence. A barricade of queer pudgy \expndtw2 chairs and divans had been built to block the corridor and\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2323\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li3672\sl-197\slmult0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 had been breached. Behind it were sprawled three more heaps \expndtw-7 of bones.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "They have no heads," the chaplain said hoarsely. "Cap\-\expndtw2 tain Salter, this is not a place for human beings. We must \expndtw1 go back to the ship, even if it means honorable death. This \expndtw0 is not a place for human beings."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 'Thank you, chaplain," said Salter. "You've cast your vote. \expndtw-2 Is anybody with you?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Kill youfown children, chaplain," said Mrs. Graves. "Not mine."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li29\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Jewel Flyte gave the chaplain a sympathetic shrug and \expndtw-3 said: "No."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 One door stood open, its lock shattered by blows of a fire \expndtw1 axe. Salter said: "We'll try that one." They entered into the \expndtw0 home of an ordinary middle-class death-worshiping family as it had been a century ago, in the one hundred and thirty-\expndtw-1 first year of Merdeka the Chosen.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li5\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Merdeka the Chosen, the All-Foreigner, the Ur-Alien, had \expndtw1 never intended any of it. He began as a retail mail-order \expndtw-4 vendor of movie and television stills, eight-by-ten glossies for \expndtw2 the fan trade. It was a hard dollar; you had to keep an im\-\expndtw1 mense stock to cater to a tottery Mae Bush admirer, to the \expndtw-2 pony-tailed screamer over flip Torn, and to everybody in be\-\expndtw-4 tween. He would have no truck with pinups. "Dirty, lascivious \expndtw1 pictures!" he snarled when broadly hinting letters arrived. \expndtw-2 "Filth! Men and women kissing, ogling, pawing each other! \expndtw0 Orgies! Bah!" Merdeka kept a neutered dog, a spayed cat, \expndtw-2 and a crumpled, uncomplaining housekeeper who was tech\-\expndtw-4 nically his wife. He was poor; he was very poor. Yet he never \expndtw1 neglected his charitable duties, contributing every year to the Planned Parenthood Federation and the Midtown Hys\-\expndtw-2 terectomy Clinic.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 They knew him in the Third Avenue saloons where he \expndtw1 talked every night, arguing with Irishmen, sometimes get\-\expndtw0 ting asked outside to be knocked down. He let them knock him down and sneered from the pavement, Was \i this \i0 their \expndtw-2 argument? \i He \i0 could argue. He spewed facts and figures and cliches in unanswerable profusion. Hell, man, the Russians'll have a bomb base on the moon in two years and in two years \expndtw2 the army and the air force will still be beating each other \expndtw1 over the head with pigs' bladders. Just a minute, let me tell \expndtw-4 you; the goddammycin's making idiots of us all; do you know \expndtw1 of any children born in the past two years that're healthy? \expndtw-3 And: 'flu be go to hell; it's our own germ warfare from Camp\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2323\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Crowder right outside Baltimore that got out of handr and \expndtw0 it happened the week of the twenty-fourth. And: the human animal's obsolete; they've proved at M.I.T., Steinwitz and Kohlmann proved that the human animal cannot survive the \expndtw-2 current radiation levels. And: enjoy your lung cancer, friend; \expndtw1 for every automobile and its stinking exhaust there will be \expndtw-3 two-point-seven-oh-three cases of lung cancer, and we've got \expndtw-5 to have our automobiles, don't we? And: delinquency my foot; \expndtw1 they're insane and it's got to the point where the economy \expndtw-2 cannot support mass insanity; they've got to be castrated; it's \expndtw-6 the only way. And: they should dig up the body of Metehnikoff \expndtw1 and throw it to the dogs; he's the degenerate who invented \expndtw-3 venereal prophylaxis and since then vice without punishment \expndtw0 has run hogwild through the world; what we need on the \expndtw-4 streets is a few of those old-time locomotor ataxia cases limp\-\expndtw-1 ing and drooling to show the kids where vice leads.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li24\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He didn't know where he came from. The delicate New \expndtw1 York way of establishing origins is to ask: "Merdeka, hah? \expndtw-4 What kind of a name is that now?" And to this he would reply \expndtw1 that he wasn't a lying Englishman or a loudmouthed Irish\-\expndtw0 man or a perverted Frenchman or a chiseling Jew or a bar\-\expndtw-4 barian Russian or a toadying German or a thick-headed Scan-\expndtw0 dihoovian, and if his listener didn't like it, what did he'have to say in reply?\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 He was from an orphanage, and the legend at the or\-\expndtw-3 phanage was that a policeman had found him, two hours old, \expndtw1 in a garbage can coincident with the death by hemorrhage \expndtw-6 on a trolley car of a luetic young woman whose name appeared \expndtw-3 to be Merdeka and who had certainly been recently delivered of a child. No other facts were established, but for generation \expndtw-2 after generation of orphanage inmates there was great solace \expndtw0 in having one of their number who indisputably had got off \expndtw2 to a worse start than they.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 A watershed of his career occurred when he noticed that \expndtw1 he was, for the seventh time that year, reordering prints of \expndtw-1 scenes from Mr. Howard Hughes' production \i The Outlaw. \expndtw0\i0 These were not the off-the-bust stills of Miss Jane Russell, \expndtw-5 surprisingly, but were group scenes of Miss Russell suspended \expndtw-2 by her wrists and about to be whipped. Merdeka studied the scene, growled "Give it to the bitch!" and doubled the order. \expndtw0 It sold out. He canvassed his files for other whipping and \expndtw-4 torture stills from \i Desert Song-type \i0 movies, made up a special \expndtw1 assortment, and it sold out within a week. Then he knew.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi-2083\li2323\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The man and the opportunity had come together, for per-\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li91\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 haps the fiftieth time \i in \i0 history. He hired a model and took \expndtw-1 the first specially posed pictures himself. They showed her cringing from a whip, tied to a chair with a clothesline, and \expndtw0 herself brandishing the whip.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi259\li72\ri5\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Within two months Merdeka had cleared six thousand \expndtw-4 dollars and he put every cent of it back into more photographs \expndtw-3 and direct-mail advertising. Within a year he was big enough \expndtw-2 to attract the postoffice obscenity people. He went to Wash\-\expndtw-1 ington and screamed in their faces: "My stuff isn't obscene \expndtw0 and I'll sue you if you bother me, you stinking bureaucrats! \expndtw-4 You show me one breast, you show me one behind, you show \expndtw-1 me one human being touching another in my pictures! You \expndtw1 can't and you know you can't! I don't believe in sex and I \expndtw0 don't push sex, so you leave me the hell alone! Life is pain \expndtw-1 and suffering and being scared so people like to look at my \expndtw0 pictures; my pictures are about \i them, \i0 the scared little jerks! You're just a bunch of goddam perverts if you think there's anything dirty about my pictures!"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li72\ri19\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He had them there; Merdeka's girls always wore at least \expndtw2 full panties, bras, and stockings; he had them there. The \expndtw-2 postoffice obscenity people were vaguely positive that there was \i something \i0 wrong with pictures of beautiful women tied \expndtw0 down to be whipped or burned with hot irons, but what?\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li62\ri29\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The next year they tried to get him on his income tax; \expndtw-1 those deductions for the Planned Parenthood Federation and \expndtw-2 the Midtown Hysterectomy Clinic were preposterous, but he \expndtw-4 proved them with canceled checks to the last nickel. "In fact," \expndtw-1 he indignantly told them, "I spend a lot of time at the Clinic \expndtw-2 and sometimes they let me watch the operations. \i That's \i0 how \expndtw1 highly they think of me at the Clinic."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi302\ri34\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The next year he started \i DEATH: The Weekly Picture \expndtw0 Magazine \i0 with the aid of a half-dozen bright young grads \expndtw-2 from the New Harvard School of Communicationeering. As \i DEATH'S \i0 Communicator in Chief (only yesterday he would have been its Publisher, and only fifty years before he would \expndtw1 have been its Editor) he slumped biliously in a pigskin-\expndtw-2 paneled office, peering suspiciously at the closed-circuit TV \expndtw-3 screen which had a hundred wired eyes throughout \i DEATH'S  \i0 offices, sometimes growling over the voice circuit:\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li53\ri48\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-6\fs21 "You! What's your name? Boland? You're through, Boland. \expndtw0 Pick up your time at the paymaster." For any reason; for no reason. He was a living legend in his narrow-lapel charcoal\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2381\sl-206\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 flannel \i suit \i0 and stringy bullfighter neckties; the bright yoang men in their Victorian Revival frock coats and pearl-pinned \expndtw4 cravats wondered at his-not "obstinacy"; not when there might be a mike even in the corner saloon; say, his "time-\expndtw1 lessness,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li48\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2 The bright young men became bright young-old men, and \expndtw-1 the magazine which had been conceived as a vehicle for dead\-\expndtw4 heading house ads of the mail-order picture business went \expndtw3 into the black. On the cover of every issue \i of DEATH \i0 was a \expndtw0 pictured execution-of-the-week, and no price for one was ever \expndtw3 too high. A fifty-thousand-dollar donation to a mosqae had \expndtw5 purchased the right to secretly snap the Bread Ordeal by \expndtw2 which perished a Yemenite suspected of tapping an oil pipe\-\expndtw5 line. An interminable illustrated "History of Flagellation" \expndtw1 was a staple of the reading matter, and the "Medical Section" \expndtw2 (in color) was tremendously popular. So too was the weekly \expndtw1 "Traffic Report."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\li24\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1 When the last of the Compact Ships was launched into the \expndtw4 Pacific the event made \i DEATH \i0 because of the several fatal \expndtw2 accidents which accompanied the launching; otherwise Mer-\expndtw3 deka ignored the ships. It was strange that he who had unor-\expndtw5 thodoxies about everything had no opinion at all about the \expndtw2 Compact Ships and their crews. Perhaps it was that he really \expndtw5 knew he was the greatest man-slayer who ever lived, and \expndtw-1 even so could not face commanding total extinction, including \expndtw5 that of the seaborne leaven. The more articulate Sokei-an, \expndtw4 who in the name of Rinzei Zen Buddhism was at that time depopulating the immense area dominated by China, made \expndtw-1 no bones about it: "Even I in my Hate may err; let the celestial \expndtw3 vessels be." The opinions of Dr, Spat. European member of \expndtw2 the trio, are forever beyond recovery due to his advocacy of \expndtw4 the "one-generation" plan.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\ri58\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3 With advancing years Merdeka's wits cooled and gelled. There came a time when he needed a theory and was forced \expndtw0 to stab the button of the intercom for his young-old Managing \expndtw3 Communicator and growl at him: "Give me a theory!" And \expndtw5 the M.C. reeled out: "The structural intermesh of \i DEATH: \expndtw0 The Weekly Picture Magazine \i0 with Western culture is no ran\-dom point-event but a rising world-line. Predecessor attitudes \expndtw2 such as the Hollywood dogma 'No breasts-blood!' and the tabloid press's exploitation of violence were floundering and \expndtw4 empirical. It was Merdeka who sigma-ized the convergent \expndtw5 traits of our times and asymptotically eongruentizes with \expndtw0 them publicationwise. Wrestling and the roller derby as blood\cf0\lang2057\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 sports, the routinization of femicide in the detective tale, the \expndtw1 standardization at one million per year of traffic fatalities, the wholesome interest of our youth in gang rumbles, all \expndtw0 point toward the Age of Hate and Death. The ethic of Love and Life is obsolescent, and who is to say that Man is the \expndtw-1 loser thereby? Life and death compete in the marketplace of \expndtw-2 ideas for the Mind of Man-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi269\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 Merdeka growled something and snapped off the set. Mer-\expndtw-1 deka leaned back. Two billion circulation this week, and the \expndtw-4 auto ads were beginning to Tip. Last year only the suggestion \expndtw1 of a dropped shopping basket as the Dynajetic 16 roared \expndtw-1 across the page, this year a hand, limp on the pictured pave\-\expndtw1 ment. Next year, blood. In February the Sylphella Salon \expndtw-2 chain ads had Tipped, with a crash: "-and the free optional judo course for slenderized Madame or Mademoiselle: learn \expndtw-5 how to kill a man with your lovely bare hands, with or without \expndtw-1 mess as desired." Applications had risen twenty-eight per\-\expndtw0 cent. By \i God \i0 there was a structural intermesh for you!\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li10\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 It was too slow; it was still too slow. He picked up a direct-line phone and screamed into it: "Too slow? What am I paying \expndtw-3 you people for? The world is wallowing in filth! Movies are dirtier than ever! Kissing! Pawing! Ogling! Men and women \expndtw-2 together-obscene! Clean up the magazine covers! Clean up \expndtw-1 the ads!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\fs21 The person at the other end of the direct line was Executive \expndtw-3 Secretary of the Society for Purity in Communications; Mer\-\expndtw-1 deka had no need to announce himself to him, for Merdeka \expndtw0 was S.P.C.'s principal underwriter. He began to rattle off at \expndtw-1 once: "We've got the Mothers' March on Washington this \expndtw1 week, sir, and a mass dummy pornographic mailing ad\-\expndtw0 dressed to every Middle Atlantic State female between the \expndtw-2 ages of six and twelve next week, sir; I believe this one-two punch will put the Federal Censorship Commission over the \expndtw-3 goal line before recess-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri62\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Merdeka hung up. "Lewd communications," he snarled. \expndtw-4 "Breeding, breeding, breeding, like maggots in a garbage can. \expndtw0 Burning and breeding. But we will make them clean."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li5\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 He did not need a Theory to tell him that he could not take \expndtw0 away Love without providing a substitute.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 He walked down Sixth Avenue that night, for the first \expndtw2 time in years. In this saloon he had argued; outside that \expndtw-5 saloon he had been punched in the nose. Well, he was winning \expndtw2 the argument, all the arguments. A mother and daughter \expndtw-1 walked past uneasily, eyes on the shadows. The mother was\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2314\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li48\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 dressed Square; she wore a sheath dress that showed her \expndtw1 neck and clavicles at the top and her legs from mid-shin at \expndtw0 the bottom. In some parts of town she'd be spat on, but the \expndtw-4 daughter, never. The girl was Hip; she was covered from neck \expndtw-2 to ankles by a loose, unbelted sack-culotte. Her mother's hair \expndtw-1 floated, hers was hidden by a cloche. Nevertheless the both \expndtw-3 of them were abruptly yanked into one of those shadows they \expndtw0 prudently had eyed, for they had not watched the well-lit \expndtw-1 sidewalk for waiting nooses.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li43\ri86\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 The familiar sounds of a Working Over came from the \expndtw-1 shadows as Merdeka strolled on, "I mean cool!" an ecstatic \expndtw-3 young voice-boy's, girl's, what did it matter?-breathed be\-\expndtw-2 tween crunching blows.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li34\ri86\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 That year the Federal Censorship Commission was cre-\expndtw3 ated\sub t\nosupersub  and the next year the old Internment Camps in the \expndtw0 southwest were tilled to capacity by violators, and the next \expndtw-1 year the First Church of Merdeka was founded in Chicago. Merdeka died of an aortal aneurism five years after that, but \expndtw0 his soul went marching \i fat.\cf0\lang2057\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li24\sb182\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "The Family That Prays Together Slays Together," was. \expndtw2 the wall motto in the apartment, but there was no evidence \expndtw-1 that the implied injunction had been observed. The bedroom \expndtw1 of the mother and the father was secured by steel doors and \expndtw-2 terrific-locks, but Junior had got them all the same; somehow \expndtw2 he had burned through the steel.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri106\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Thermite?" Jewel Flyte asked herself softly, trying to \expndtw2 remember. First he had got the father, quickly and quietly \expndtw-1 with a wire garotte as he lay sleeping, so as not to alarm his \expndtw0 mother. To her he had taken her own spiked knobkerry and got in a mortal stroke, but not before she reached under her pillow for a pistol, Junior's teenage bones testified by their arrangement to the violence of that leaden blow.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li5\ri115\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 Incredulously they looked at the family library of comic \expndtw-3 books, published in a series called "The Merdekan Five-Foot \expndtw0 Shelf of Classics." Jewel Flyte leafed slowly through one \expndtw-3 called \i Moby Dick \i0 and found that it consisted of a near-brain\-\expndtw-2 ing in a bedroom, agonizingly depicted deaths at sea, and for \expndtw-1 a climax the eating alive of one Ahab by a monster. "Surely \expndtw0 there must have been more," she whispered.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri125\sl-206\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Chaplain Pemberton put down \i Hamlet \i0 quickly and held \expndtw-2 onto a wall. He was quite sure that he felt his sanity slipping \expndtw-3 palpably away, that he would gibber in a moment. He prayed\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2333\sl-206\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 and after a while \i felt better; he \i0 rigorously \i kept \i0 his eyes away \expndtw1 from the Classics after that.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi264\li10\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Mrs. Graves snorted at the waste of it all, at the picture \expndtw-6 of the ugly, pop-eyed, busted-nose man labeled \scaps merdeka \scaps0 THE \scaps chosen, the pure, the purifier. \scaps0 There were two tables, which \expndtw-3 was a Ally. Who needed two tables? Then she looked closer, \expndtw0 saw that one of them was really a blood-stained flogging bench and felt slightly ill. Its nameplate said \i Correctional Furniture Corp. Size 6, Ages 10-14. \i0 She had, God knew, \expndtw-4 slapped her children more than once when they deviated from \expndtw-2 her standard of perfection, but when she saw those stains she \expndtw0 felt a stirring of warmth for the parricidal bones in the next \expndtw-8 room.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Captain Salter said: "Let's get organized. Does anybody think there are any of them- left?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li14\ri10\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "I think not," said Mrs. Graves. "People like that can't \expndtw-1 survive. The world must have been swept clean. They, ah, \expndtw2 killed one another but that's not the important point. This \expndtw-3 couple had one child, age ten to fourteen. This cabin of theirs \expndtw-4 seems to be built for one child. We should look at a few more cabins to learn whether a\sub v\nosupersub one-child family is-was-normal. \expndtw2 If we find out that it was, we can suspect that they are- \expndtw-1 gone. Or nearly so." She coined a happy phrase: "By race \expndtw-4 suicide."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "The arithmetic of it is quite plausible," Salter said. "If \expndtw-3 no factors work except the single-child factor, in one century of five generations a population of two billion will have bred itself down to 125 million. In another century, the population \expndtw-1 is just under four million. In another, 122 thousand.. .by the thirty-second generation the last couple descended from the \expndtw0 original two billion will breed one child, and that's the end. And there are the other factors. Besides those who do not \expndtw-2 breed, by choice"-his eyes avoided Jewel Flyte-"there are \expndtw2 the things we have seen on the stairs, and in the corridor, \expndtw1 and in these compartments."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "Then there's our answer," said Mrs. Graves. She smacked \expndtw-2 the obscene table with her hand, forgetting what it was. "We \expndtw-1 beach the ship and march the ship's company onto dry land. \expndtw0 We clean up, we learn what we have to do to get along-" \expndtw-1 Her words trailed off. She shook her head. "Sorry," she said gloomily. "I'm talking nonsense."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The chaplain understood her, but he said: "The land is \expndtw0 merely another of the many mansions. Surely they could \expndtw-3 learn!"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2323\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "It's not politically feasible," Saiter said. "Not in its pres\-\expndtw-4 ent form." He thought of presenting the proposal to the Ship's \expndtw2 Council in the shadow of the mast that bore the Compact, \expndtw0 and twitched his head in-an involuntary negative.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li293\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "There is a formula possible," Jewel Flyte said.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li38\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 The Browneils burst in on them then, all eighteen of the \expndtw2 Brownells, They had been stalking the shore party sinse\i  its \expndtw-1\i0 landing. Nine sack-culotted women in clothes and nine men \expndtw0 in penitential black, they streamed through the gaping door \expndtw2 and surrounded the sea people with a ring of spears. Other \expndtw0 factors had indeed operated, but this was not yet the thirty-\expndtw-1 second generation of extinction.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The leader of the Brownells, a male, said with satisfaction; \expndtw-1 "Just when we needed-new blood." Saiter understood that \expndtw1 he was not speaking in genetic terms.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 The females, more verbal types, said critically: "Evildoers, \expndtw0 obviously. Displaying their limbs without shame, brazenly \expndtw-1 flaunting the rotted pillars of the temple of lust. Come from \expndtw0 the accursed sea itself, abode of infamy, to seduce us from \expndtw1 our decent and regular lives."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li29\ri34\sb5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "We know what to do with the women," said the male \expndtw1 leader. The rest took up the antiphon.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li274\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "We'll knock them down."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "And roll them on their backs."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "And pull one arm out and tie it fast."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li264\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "And pull the other arm out and tie it fast."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "And pull one limb out and tie it fast."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "And pull the other limb out and tie it fast."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "And then-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li259\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "We'll beat them to death and Merdeka will smile."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li14\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Chaplain Pemberton stared incredulously. "You mast took \expndtw0 into your hearts," he told them in a reasonable voice. "You \expndtw-1 must look deeper than you have, and you will find that you have been deluded. This is not the way for human beings to \expndtw-3 act. Somebody has misled you dreadfully. Let me explain-"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\ri53\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "Blasphemy," the leader of the females said, and put her \expndtw-2 spear expertly into the chaplain's intestines. The shock of the \expndtw-1 broad, cold blade pulsed through him and felled him. Jewel \expndtw2 Flyte knelt beside him instantly, checking heartbeat and \expndtw1 breathing. He was alive.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri67\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Get up," the male leader said. "Displaying and offering \expndtw1 yourself to such as we is useless. We are pure in heart."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\ri82\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw3\fs21 A male child ran to the door. "Wagners!" he screamed \expndtw2 'Twenty Wagners coming up the stairs'"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2323\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li34\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 His father roared at him: "Stand straight and don't mum\-\expndtw-2 ble!" and slashed out with the butt of his spear, catching him \expndtw0 hard in the ribs. The child grinned, but only after the pure-\expndtw3 hearted eighteen had run to the stairs.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Then he blasted a whistle down the corridor while the sea \expndtw-1 people stared with what attention they could divert from the bleeding chaplain. Six doors popped open at the whistle and \expndtw0 men and women emerged from them to launch spears into the backs of the Brownells clustered to defend the stairs. \expndtw2 "Thanks, pop!" the boy kept screaming while the pure-\expndtw1 hearted Wagners swarmed over the remnants of the pure-\expndtw-1 hearted Brownells; at last his screaming bothered one of the \expndtw0 Wagners and the boy was himself speared.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li19\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Jewel Flyte said: "I've had enough of this. Captain, please \expndtw0 pick the chaplain up and come along."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li269\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "They'll kill us."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li24\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "You'll have the chaplain," said Mrs. Graves. "One mo\-\expndtw-2 ment." She darted into a bedroom and came back hefting the \expndtw-1 spiked knobkerry.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li19\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Well, perhaps," the girl said. She began undoing the long row of buttons down the front of her coveralls and shrugged \expndtw0 out of the garment, then unfastened and stepped out of her \expndtw1 underwear. With the clothes over her arm she walked into the corridor and to the stairs, the stupefied captain and in\-\expndtw-4 spector following.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li5\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 To the pure-hearted Merdekans she was not Phryne win\-\expndtw-3 ning her case; she was Evil incarnate. They screamed, broke, \expndtw-2 and ran wildly, dropping their weapons. That a human being \expndtw-3 could do such a thing was beyond their comprehension; Mer-\expndtw1 deka alone knew what kind of monster this was that drew \expndtw-1 them strangely and horribly, in violation of all sanity. They \expndtw0 ran as she had hoped they would; the other side of the coin \expndtw-2 was spearing even more swift and thorough than would have \expndtw0 been accorded to her fully clothed. But they ran, gibbering \expndtw-1 with fright and covering their eyes, into apartments and cor\-\expndtw0 ners of the corridor, their backs turned on the awful thing.\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The sea-people picked their way over the shambles at the \expndtw2 stairway and went unopposed down the stairs and to the \expndtw-1 dock. It was a troublesome piece of work for Salter to pass \expndtw2 the chaplain down to Mrs. Graves in the boat, but in ten \expndtw0 minutes they had cast off, rowed out a little, and set sail to catch the land breeze generated by the differential twilight \expndtw-3 cooling of water and brick. After playing her part in stepping \expndtw1 the mast, Jewel Flyte dressed.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2323\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li48\ri14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 "It won't always be that easy," she said when the last \expndtw-3 button was fastened. Mrs. Graves had been thinking the same \expndtw-1 thing, but had not said it to avoid the appearance of envying that superb young body.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li43\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Salter was checking the chaplain as well as he knew how. \expndtw3 "I think he'll be all right," he said. "Surgical repair and a \expndtw0 long rest. He hasn't lost much blood. This is a strange story we'll have to tell the Ship's Council."\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 Mrs. Graves said: 'They've no choice. We've lost our net \expndtw0 and the land is there waiting for us. A few maniacs oppose \expndtw-2 us-what of it?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Again a huge fish lazily surfaced; Salter regarded it \expndtw-1 thoughtfully. He said: "They'll propose scavenging bronze \expndtw1 ashore and fashioning another net and going on just as if \expndtw-1 nothing had happened. And really, we could do that, you \expndtw-6 know."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi230\li34\ri29\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 Jewel Flyte said: "No, Not forever. This time it was the \expndtw2 net, at the end of harvest. What if it were three masts in \expndtw0 midwinter, in mid-Atlantic?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li29\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 "Or," said the captain, "the rudder-anytime. Anywhere. But can you imagine telling the Council they've got to walk \expndtw-2 off the ship onto land, take up quarters in those brick cabins, \expndtw-1 change \i everything? \i0 And fight maniacs, and learn to \i farm?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\li19\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\tx4843\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "There must be a way," said Jewel Flyte. "Just as Mer-\line deka, whatever it was, was a way. There were too many\line\expndtw-1 people, and Merdeka was the answer to too many people.\line\expndtw2 There's always an answer, Man is a land mammal in spite\line\expndtw-4 of brief excursions at sea. We were seed stock put aside, wait\-\line\expndtw-3 ing for the land to be cleared so we could return. Just as these\line\expndtw2 offshore fish are waiting very patiently for us to step har\-\line vesting twice a year so they can return to deep water and\line\expndtw-1 multiply. What's the way, captain?"\expndtw0\tab "\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi235\li19\ri38\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 He thought hard. "We eould," he said slowly, "begin by \expndtw-3 simply sailing in close and fishing the offshore waters for big \expndtw-1 stuff. Then tie up and build a sort of bridge from the ship to the shore. We'd continue to live aboard the ship but we'd go \expndtw1 out during daylight to try farming."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li254\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "It sounds right,"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\fs21 "And keep improving the bridge, making it more and more \expndtw0 solid, until before they notice it it's really a solid part of the \expndtw2 ship and a solid part of the shore. It might take... mmm,., \expndtw1 ten years?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi250\ri48\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "Time enough for the old shellbacks to make up their \expndtw-2 minds," Mrs. Graves unexpectedly snorted.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li2328\sl-197\slmult0\qc\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi254\li14\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw1\fs21 "And we'd relax the one-to-one reproduction rule, and \expndtw-3 some young adults will simply be crowded over the bridge to \expndtw0 live on the land-" His face suddenly fell. "And then the \expndtw-3 whole damned farce starts all over again, I suppose. I pointed \expndtw2 out that it takes thirty-two generations bearing one child \expndtw-1 apiece to run a population of two billion into zero. Well, I \expndtw1 should have mentioned that it takes thirty-two generations \expndtw-1 bearing four children apiece to run a population of two into \expndtw0 two billion. Oh, what's the use, Jewel?"\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 She chuckled. "There was an answer last time," she said. \expndtw1 "There will be an answer the next time."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\li10\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 "It won't be the same answer as Merdeka," he vowed. "We \expndtw3 grew up a little at sea. This time we can do it with brains \expndtw2 and not with nightmares and superstition."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li5\ri24\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\fs21 "I don't know," she said. "Our ship will be the first, and \expndtw-2 then the other ships will have their accidents one by one and \expndtw-1 come and tie up and build their bridges hating every minute \expndtw0 of it for the first two generations and then not hating it, just \expndtw-3 living it... and who will be the greatest man who ever lived?"\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li240\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-1\fs21 The captain looked horrified.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Yes, you! Salter, the Builder of the Bridge; Tommy, do you know an old word for 'bridge-builder'? \i Pontifex."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\i0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li245\sl-197\slmult0\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 "Oh, my God!" Tommy Salter said in despair.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri34\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\fs21 A flicker of consciousness was passing through the wounded \expndtw-3 chaplain; he heard the words and was pleased that somebody \expndtw-1 aboard was praying.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li24\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-7\fs31 Afterword\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\li10\sb730\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-3\fs21 Despite the gloom of potential catastrophe that we mast face, \expndtw0 there is no reason to give up. If we think about catastrophes \expndtw-3 with the sober scientific speculation \i of A Choice of Catastro\-\expndtw0 phes, \i0 we must conclude that:\cf0\lang2057\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2{\pntext\f0 1)\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent231\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta)}}
\nowidctlpar\fi240\li14\sl-197\slmult0\tx485\cf1\lang1033\expndtw2\fs21 Some catastrophes are high-probability and even in\-\line\expndtw-1 evitable, but will take place so far in the future that it makes\line no sense to worry about them now,\expndtw-13\par
\expndtw2{\pntext\f0 2)\tab}Some catastrophes may take place in the near future,\line\expndtw-1 even tomorrow, but are so extremely low-probability that it\line makes no sense to worry about them excessively.\expndtw-11\par
\expndtw1{\pntext\f0 3)\tab}Some catastrophes are high-probability \i and \i0 may take\line\expndtw-4 place in the near-future, even tomorrow. It is only these which\line\expndtw-2 must concern us now.\expndtw-9\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi245\li10\ri5\sl-197\slmult0\qj\expndtw1 In every case, however, the catastrophes that are both \expndtw0 high-probability and near-future are human-caused: nuclear \expndtw-1 war, overpopulation, overpollution, resource depletion, and \expndtw-4\i so \i0 on. And if they are human-caused, they could, conceivably, \expndtw-1 be human-cured.\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
\pard\cbpat2\nowidctlpar\fi240\ri19\sl-197\slmult0\qj\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-2\fs21 As Isaac Asimov stated in \i A Choice of Catastrophes, \i0 the \expndtw1 most significant meaning of the title is that "We can delib\-erately choose to have no catastrophes at all."\cf0\lang2057\expndtw0\fs20\par
}
 