{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq1\fcharset128 MS Mincho;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\stylesheet{ Normal;}{\s1 heading 1;}{\s2 heading 2;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\qc\f0\fs72 THE CAVES OF STEEL\par
\fs48 Isaac Asimov\par
\pard\f1\fs24\par
\par
\pard\qj\f0 VERSION 1.2 (DEC 2002) Proofed and formatted by <Bibliophile>. Undecipherable, dubious, or missing text has been enclosed in brackets [\'85].\par
\pard\f1\par
\pard\qj\page\f0 All of the characters in this book are fictitious, and any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, is purely coincidental.\par
\pard\f1\par
\pard\qc\f0\fs16 COPYRIGHT, 1953, 1954,\par
BY ISAAC ASIMOV\par
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED\par
\par
PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES\f1\fs24\par
\par
\b\i\f0 TO MY WIFE, GERTRUDE, \par
AND MY SON, DAVID\par
\pard\b0\i0\f1\par
\pard\keepn\pagebb\s1\sb240\sa60\qc\kerning32\b\f2\fs32 Contents\par
\pard\tqr\tldot\tx9592\cf1\lang1024\kerning0\ul\b0\f0\fs24 Chapter 1\cf0\ulnone\tab 4\par
\cf1\ul Chapter 2\cf0\ulnone\tab 11\par
\cf1\ul Chapter 3\cf0\ulnone\tab 18\par
\cf1\ul Chapter 4\cf0\ulnone\tab 23\par
\cf1\ul Chapter 5\cf0\ulnone\tab 31\par
\cf1\ul Chapter 6\cf0\ulnone\tab 38\par
\cf1\ul Chapter 7\cf0\ulnone\tab 43\par
\cf1\ul Chapter 8\cf0\ulnone\tab 51\par
\cf1\ul Chapter 9\cf0\ulnone\tab 58\par
\cf1\ul Chapter 10\cf0\ulnone\tab 66\par
\cf1\ul Chapter 11\cf0\ulnone\tab 74\par
\cf1\ul Chapter 12\cf0\ulnone\tab 81\par
\cf1\ul Chapter 13\cf0\ulnone\tab 89\par
\cf1\ul Chapter 14\cf0\ulnone\tab 98\par
\cf1\ul Chapter 15\cf0\ulnone\tab 106\par
\cf1\ul Chapter 16\cf0\ulnone\tab 113\par
\cf1\ul Chapter 17\cf0\ulnone\tab 121\par
\cf1\ul Chapter 18\cf0\ulnone\tab 127\par
\pard\lang1033\f1\par
\pard\fi216\qj\par
\pard\keepn\pagebb\s1\sb240\sa60\qc\kerning32\b\f2\fs32 Chapter 1\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa240\qc\kerning0\i\fs28 CONVERSATION WITH A COMMISSIONER\par
\pard\fi216\qj\b0\i0\f0\fs24 Lije Baley had just reached his desk when he became aware of R. Sammy watching him expectantly.\par
The dour lines of his long face hardened. \ldblquote What do you want?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The boss wants you, Lije. Right away. Soon as you come in.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right.\rdblquote\par
R. Sammy stood there blankly.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote I said, all right. Go away!\rdblquote\par
R. Sammy turned on his heel and left to go about his duties. Baley wondered irritably why those same duties couldn\rquote t be done by a man.\par
He paused to examine the contents of his tobacco pouch and make a mental calculation. At two pipefuls a day, he could stretch it to next quota day.\par
Then he stepped out from behind his railing (he\rquote d rated a railed corner two years ago) and walked the length of the common room.\par
Simpson looked up from a merc-pool file as he passed. \ldblquote Boss wants you, Lije.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I know. R. Sammy told me.\rdblquote\par
A closely coded tape reeled out of the merc-pool\rquote s vitals as the small instrument searched and analyzed its \ldblquote memory\rdblquote  for the desired information stored in the tiny vibration patterns of the gleaming mercury surface within.\par
\ldblquote I\rquote d kick R. Sammy\rquote s behind if I weren\rquote t afraid I\rquote d break a leg,\rdblquote  said Simpson. \ldblquote I saw Vince Barrett the other day.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He was looking for his job back. Or any job in the Department. The poor kid\rquote s desperate, but what could I tell him. R. Sammy\rquote s doing his job and that\rquote s all. The kid has to work a delivery tread on the yeast farms now. He was a bright boy, too. Everyone liked him.\rdblquote\par
Baley shrugged and said in a manner stiffer than he intended or felt, \ldblquote It\rquote s a thing we\rquote re all living through.\rdblquote\par
The boss rated a private office. It said JULIUS ENDERBY on the clouded glass. Nice letters. Carefully etched into the fabric of the glass. Underneath, it said COMMISSIONER OF POLICE, CITY OF NEW YORK.\par
Baley stepped in and said, \ldblquote You want to see me, Commissioner?\rdblquote\par
Enderby looked up. He wore spectacles because his eyes were sensitive and couldn\rquote t take the usual contact lenses. It was only after one got used to the sight of them that one could take in the rest of the face, which was quite undistinguished. Baley had a strong notion that the Commissioner valued his glasses for the personality they lent him and suspected that his eyeballs weren\rquote t as sensitive as all that.\par
The Commissioner looked definitely nervous. He straightened his cuffs, leaned back, and said, too heartily, \ldblquote Sit down, Lije. Sit down.\rdblquote\par
Baley sat down stiffly and waited.\par
Enderby said, \ldblquote [\'85]?\rdblquote\par
[\'85], said Baley, [\'85]\par
\ldblquote Fine,\rdblquote  echoed Enderby. \ldblquote Just fine.\rdblquote\par
It had been a false start.\par
Baley thought: Something\rquote s wrong with his face.\par
Aloud, he said, \ldblquote Commissioner, I wish you wouldn\rquote t send R. Sammy out after me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, you know how I feel about those things, Lije. But he\rquote s been put here and I\rquote ve got to use him for something.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s uncomfortable, Commissioner. He tells me you want me and then he stands there. You know what I mean. I have to tell him to go or he just keeps on standing there.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh, that\rquote s my fault, Lije. I gave him the message to deliver and forgot to tell him specifically to get back to his job when he was through.\rdblquote\par
Baley sighed. The fine wrinkles about his intensely brown eyes grew more pronounced. \ldblquote Anyway, you wanted to see me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, Lije,\rdblquote  said the Commissioner, \ldblquote but not for anything easy.\rdblquote\par
He stood up turned away, and walked [to] the wall behind his desk.\par
The Commissioner smiled. \ldblquote I had this arranged specially last year, Lije. I don\rquote t think I\rquote ve showed it to you before. Come over here and take a look. In the old days, all rooms had things like this. They were called \lquote windows.\rquote  Did you know that?\rdblquote\par
Baley knew that very well, having viewed many historical novels.\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ve heard of them,\rdblquote  he said.\par
\ldblquote Come here.\rdblquote\par
Baley squirmed a bit, but did as he was told. There was something indecent about the exposure of the privacy of a room to the outside world. Sometimes the Commissioner carried his affectation of Medievalism to a rather foolish extreme.\par
Like his glasses, Baley thought.\par
That was it! That was what made him look wrong!\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Pardon me, Commissioner, but you\rquote re wearing new glasses, aren\rquote t you?\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner stared at him in mild surprise, took off his glasses, looked at them and then at Baley. Without his glasses, his round face seemed rounder and his chin a trifle more pronounced. He looked vaguer, too, as his eyes failed to focus properly.\par
He said, \ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
He put his glasses back on his nose, then added with real anger, \ldblquote I broke my old ones three days ago. What with one thing or another I wasn\rquote t able to replace them till this morning. Lije, those three days were hell.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote On account of the glasses?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And other things, too. I\rquote m getting to that.\rdblquote\par
He turned to the window and so did Baley. With mild shock, Baley realized it was raining. For a minute, he was lost in the spectacle of water dropping from the sky, while the Commissioner exuded a kind of pride as though the phenomenon were a matter of his own arranging.\par
\ldblquote This is the third time this month I\rquote ve watched it rain. Quite a sight, don\rquote t you think?\rdblquote\par
Against his will, Baley had to admit to himself that it was impressive. [In] his forty-two years he had rarely seen rain, or any of the phenomena at nature, for that matter.\par
He said, \ldblquote It always seems a waste for all that water to come down on the city. It should restrict itself to the reservoirs.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Lije,\rdblquote  said the Commissioner, \ldblquote you\rquote re a modernist. That\rquote s your trouble. In Medieval times, people lived in the open. I don\rquote t mean on the farms only. I mean in the cities, too. Even in New York. When it rained, they didn\rquote t think of it as waste. They gloried in it. They lived close to nature. It\rquote s healthier, better. The troubles of modern life come from being divorced from nature. Read up on the Coal Century, sometimes.\rdblquote\par
Baley had. He had heard many people moaning about the invention of the atomic pile. He moaned about it himself when things went wrong, or when he got tired. Moaning like that was a built-in facet of human nature. Back in the Coal Century, people moaned about the invention of the steam engine. In one of Shakespeare\rquote s plays, a character moaned about the invention of gunpowder. A thousand years in the future, they\rquote d be moaning about the invention of the positronic brain.\par
The hell with it.\par
He said, grimly, \ldblquote Look, Julius.\rdblquote  (It wasn\rquote t his habit to get friendly with the Commissioner during office hours, however many \lquote Lijes\rquote  the Commissioner threw at him, but something special seemed called for here.) \ldblquote Look, Julius, you\rquote re talking about everything except what I came in here for, and it\rquote s worrying me. What is it?\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner said, \ldblquote I\rquote ll get to it, Lije. Let me do it my way. It\rquote s--it\rquote s trouble.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Sure. What isn\rquote t on this planet? More trouble with the R\rquote s?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote In a way, yes, Lije. I stand here and wonder how much more trouble the old world can take. \ldblquote When I put in this window, I wasn\rquote t just letting in the sky once in a while. I let in the City. I look at it and I wonder what will become of it in another century.\rdblquote\par
Baley felt repelled by the other\rquote s sentimentality, but he found himself staring outward in fascination. Even dimmed by the weather, the City was a tremendous thing to see. The Police Department was in the upper levels of City Hall, and City Hall reached high. From the Commissioner\rquote s window, the neighboring towers fell short and the tops were visible. They were so many fingers, groping upward. Their walls were blank, featureless. They were the outer shells of human hives.\par
\ldblquote In a way,\rdblquote  said the Commissioner, \ldblquote I\rquote m sorry it\rquote s raining. We can\rquote t see Spacetown.\rdblquote\par
Baley looked westward, but it was as the Commissioner said. The horizon closed down. New York\rquote s towers grew misty and came to an end against blank whiteness.\par
\ldblquote I know what Spacetown is like,\rdblquote  said Baley.\par
\ldblquote I like the picture from here,\rdblquote  said the Commissioner. \ldblquote It can just be made out in the gap between the two Brunswick Sectors. Low domes spread out. It\rquote s the difference between us and the Spacers. We reach high and crowd close. With them, each family has a dome for itself. One family: one house. And land between each dome. Have you ever spoken to any of the Spacers, Lije?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote A few times. About a month ago, I spoke to one right here on your intercom,\rdblquote  Baley said, patiently.\par
\ldblquote Yes, I remember. But then, I\rquote m just getting philosophical. We and they. Different ways of life.\rdblquote\par
Baley\rquote s stomach was beginning to constrict a little. The more devious the Commissioner\rquote s approach, the deadlier he thought might be the conclusion.\par
He said, \ldblquote All right. But what\rquote s so surprising about it? You can\rquote t spread eight billion people over Earth in little domes. They\rquote ve got space on their worlds, so let them live their way.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner walked to his chair and sat down. His eyes looked unblinkingly at Baley, shrunken a bit by the concave lenses in his spectacles. He said, \ldblquote Not everyone is that tolerant about differences in culture. Either among us or among the Spacers.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right. So what?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote So three days ago, a Spacer died.\rdblquote\par
Now it was coming. The corners of Baley\rquote s thin lips raised a trifle, but the effect upon his long, sad face was unnoticeable. He said, \ldblquote Too bad. Something contagious, I hope. A virus. A cold, perhaps.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner looked startled, \ldblquote What are you talking about?\rdblquote  Baley didn\rquote t care to explain. The precision with which the Spacers had bred disease out of their societies was well known. The care with which they avoided, as far as possible, contact with disease-riddled Earthmen was even better known. But then, sarcasm was lost on the Commissioner.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote I\rquote m just talking. What did he die of?\rdblquote  He turned back to the window.\par
The Commissioner said, \ldblquote He died of a missing chest. Someone had used a blaster on him.\rdblquote\par
Baley\rquote s back grew rigid. He said, without turning, \ldblquote What are you talking about?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m talking about murder,\rdblquote  said the Commissioner, softly. \ldblquote You\rquote re a plain-clothes man. You know what murder is.\rdblquote\par
And now Baley turned. \ldblquote But a Spacer! Three days ago?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But who did it? How?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The Spacers say it was an Earthman.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It can\rquote t be.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why not? You don\rquote t like the Spacers. I don\rquote t. Who on Earth does? Someone didn\rquote t like them a little too much, that\rquote s all.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Sure, but--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote There was the fire at the Los Angeles factories. There was the Berlin R-smashing. There were the riots in Shanghai.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It all points to rising discontent. Maybe to some sort of organization.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Commissioner, I don\rquote t get this. Are you testing me for some reason?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What?\rdblquote  The Commissioner looked honestly bewildered.\par
Baley watched him. \ldblquote Three days ago a Spacer was murdered and the Spacers think the murderer is an Earthman. Till now,\rdblquote  his finger tapped the desk, \ldblquote nothing\rquote s come out. Is that right? Commissioner, that\rquote s unbelievable. Jehoshaphat, Commissioner, a thing like this would blow New York off the face of the planet if it really happened.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner shook his head. \ldblquote It\rquote s not as simple as that. Look, Lije, I\rquote ve been out three days. I\rquote ve been in conference with the Mayor. I\rquote ve been out to Spacetown. I\rquote ve been down in Washington, talking to the Terrestrial Bureau of Investigation.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh? And what do the Terries have to say?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote They say it\rquote s our baby. It\rquote s inside city limits. Spacetown is under New York jurisdiction.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But with extraterritorial rights.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I know. I\rquote m coming to that.\rdblquote  The Commissioner\rquote s eyes fell away from Baley\rquote s flinty stare. He seemed to regard himself as having been suddenly demoted to the position of Baley\rquote s underling, and Baley behaved as though he accepted the fact.\par
\ldblquote The Spacers can run the show,\rdblquote  said Baley.\par
\ldblquote Wait a minute, Lije,\rdblquote  pleaded the Commissioner. \ldblquote Don\rquote t rush me. I\rquote m trying to talk this over, friend to friend. I want you to know my position. I was there when the news broke. I had an appointment with him--with Roj Nemennuh Sarton.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The victim?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The victim.\rdblquote  The Commissioner groaned. \ldblquote Five minutes more and I, myself, would have discovered the body. What a shock that would have been. As it was, it was brutal, brutal. They met me and told me. It started a three-day nightmare, Lije. That on top of having everything blur on me and having no time to replace my glasses for days. That won\rquote t happen again, at least. I\rquote ve ordered three pairs.\rdblquote\par
Baley considered the picture he conjured up of the event. He could see the tall, fair figures of the Spacers approaching the Commissioner with the news and breaking it to him in their unvarnished emotionless way. Julius would remove his glasses and polish them. Inevitably, under the impact of the event, he would drop them, then look down at the broken remnants with a quiver of his soft, full lips. Baley was quite certain that, for five minutes anyway, the Commissioner was much more disturbed over his glasses than over the murder.\par
The Commissioner was saying, \ldblquote It\rquote s a devil of a position. As you say, the Spacers have extraterritorial rights. They can insist on their own investigation, make whatever report they wish to their home governments. The Outer Worlds could use this as an excuse to pile on indemnity charges. You know how that would sit with the population.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It would be political suicide for the White House to agree to pay.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And another kind of suicide not to pay.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You don\rquote t have to draw me a picture,\rdblquote  said Baley. He had been a small boy when the gleaming cruisers from outer space last sent down their soldiers into Washington, New York, and Moscow to collect what they claimed was theirs.\par
\ldblquote Then you see. Pay or not pay, it\rquote s trouble. The only way out is to find the murderer on our own and hand him over to the Spacers. It\rquote s up to us.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why not give it to the TBI? Even if it is our jurisdiction from a legalistic viewpoint, there\rquote s the question of interstellar relations--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The TBI won\rquote t touch it. This is hot and it\rquote s in our lap.\rdblquote  For a moment, he lifted his head and gazed keenly at his subordinate. \ldblquote And it\rquote s not good, Lije. Every one of us stands the chance of being out of a job.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Replace us all? Nuts. The trained men to do it with don\rquote t exist.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote R\rquote s,\rdblquote  said the Commissioner. \ldblquote They exist.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote R. Sammy is just a beginning. He runs errands. Others can patrol the expressways. Damn it, man, I know the Spacers better than you do, and I know what they\rquote re doing. There are R\rquote s that can do your work and mine. We can be declassified. Don\rquote t think differently. And at our age, to hit the labor pool ...\rdblquote\par
Baley said, gruffly, \ldblquote All right.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner looked abashed. \ldblquote Sorry, Lije.\rdblquote\par
Baley nodded and tried not to think of his father. The Commissioner knew the story, of course.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote When did all this replacement business come up?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Look, you\rquote re being naive, Lije. It\rquote s been happening all along. It\rquote s been happening for twenty-five years, ever since the Spacers came. You know that. It\rquote s just beginning to reach higher, that\rquote s all. If we muff this case, it\rquote s a big, long step toward the point where we can stop looking forward to collecting our pension-tab booklets. On the other hand, Lije, if we handle the matter well, it can shove that point far into the future. And it would be a particular break for you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote For me?\rdblquote  said Baley.\par
\ldblquote You\rquote ll be the operative in charge, Lije.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t rate it, Commissioner. I\rquote m a C-5, that\rquote s all.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You want a C-6 rating, don\rquote t you?\rdblquote\par
Did he? Baley knew the privileges a C-6 rating carried. A seat on the expressway in the rush hour, not just from ten to four. Higher up on the list-of-choice at the Section kitchens. Maybe even a chance at a better apartment and a quota ticket to the Solarium levels for Jessie.\par
\ldblquote I want it,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote Sure. Why wouldn\rquote t I? But what would I get if I couldn\rquote t break the case?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why wouldn\rquote t you break it, Lije?\rdblquote  the Commissioner wheedled. \ldblquote You\rquote re a good man. You\rquote re one of the best we have.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But there are half a dozen men with higher ratings in my department section. Why should they be passed over?\rdblquote\par
Baley did not say out loud, though his bearing implied it strongly, that the Commissioner did not move outside protocol in this fashion except in cases of wild emergency.\par
The Commissioner folded his hands. \ldblquote Two reasons. You\rquote re not just another detective to me, Lije. We\rquote re friends, too. I\rquote m not forgetting we were in college together. Sometimes it may look as though I have forgotten, but that\rquote s the fault of rating. I\rquote m Commissioner, and you know what that means. But I\rquote m still your friend and this is a tremendous chance for the right person. I want you to have it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s one reason,\rdblquote  said Baley, without warmth.\par
\ldblquote The second reason is that I think you\rquote re my friend. I need a favor.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What sort of favor?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I want you to take on a Spacer partner in this deal. That was the condition the Spacers made. They\rquote ve agreed not to report the murder; they\rquote ve agreed to leave the investigation in our hands. In return, they insist one of their own agents be in on the deal, the whole deal.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It sounds like they don\rquote t trust us altogether.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Surely you see their point. If this is mishandled, a number of them will be in trouble with their own governments. I\rquote ll give them the benefit of the doubt, Lije. I\rquote m willing to believe they mean well.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m sure they do, Commissioner. That\rquote s the trouble with them.\rdblquote  The Commissioner looked blank at that, but went on. \ldblquote Are you willing to take on a Spacer partner, Lije?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You\rquote re asking that as a favor?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, I\rquote m asking you to take the job with all the conditions the Spacers have set up.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ll take a Spacer partner, Commissioner.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Thanks, Lije. He\rquote ll have to live with you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh, now, hold on.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I know. I know. But you\rquote ve got a large apartment, Lije. Three rooms. Only one child. You can put him up. He\rquote ll be no trouble. No trouble at all. And it\rquote s necessary.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Jessie won\rquote t like it. I know that.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You tell Jessie,\rdblquote  the Commissioner was earnest, so earnest that his eyes seemed to bore holes through the glass discs blocking his stare, \ldblquote that if you do this for me, I\rquote ll do what I can when this is all over to jump you a grade. C-7, Lije. C-7!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right, Commissioner, it\rquote s a deal.\rdblquote\par
Baley half rose from his chair, caught the look on Enderby\rquote s face, and sat down again.\par
\ldblquote There\rquote s something else?\rdblquote\par
Slowly, the Commissioner nodded. \ldblquote One more item.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Which is?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The name of your partner.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What difference does that make?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The Spacers,\rdblquote  said the Commissioner, \ldblquote have peculiar ways. The partner they\rquote re supplying isn\rquote t--isn\rquote t ...\rdblquote\par
Baley\rquote s eyes opened wide. \ldblquote Just a minute!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You\rquote ve got to, Lije. You\rquote ve got to. There\rquote s no way out.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Stay at my apartment? A thing like that?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote As a friend, please!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No. No!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Lije, I can\rquote t trust anyone else in this. Do I have to spell it out for you? We\rquote ve got to work with the Spacers. We\rquote ve got to succeed, if we\rquote re to keep the indemnity ships away from Earth. But we can\rquote t succeed just any old way. You\rquote ll be partnered with one of their R\rquote s. If he breaks the case, if he can report that we\rquote re incompetent, we\rquote re ruined, anyway. We, as a department. You see that, don\rquote t you? So you\rquote ve got a delicate job on your hands. You\rquote ve got to work with him, but see to it that you solve the case and not he. Understand?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You mean co-operate with him 100 per cent, except that I cut his throat? Pat him on the back with a knife in my hand?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What else can we do? There\rquote s no other way out.\rdblquote\par
Lije Baley stood irresolute. \ldblquote I don\rquote t know what Jessie will say.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ll talk to her, if you want me to.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, Commissioner.\rdblquote  He drew a deep, sighing breath. \ldblquote What\rquote s my partner\rquote s name?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote R. Daneel Olivaw.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, sadly, \ldblquote This isn\rquote t a time for euphemism, Commissioner. I\rquote m taking the job, so let\rquote s use his full name. Robot Daneel Olivaw.\rdblquote\par
\pard\keepn\pagebb\s1\sb240\sa60\qc\kerning32\b\f2\fs32 Chapter 2\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa240\qc\kerning0\i\fs28 ROUND TRIP ON AN EXPRESSWAY\par
\pard\fi216\qj\b0\i0\f0\fs24 There was the usual, entirely normal crowd on the expressway: the standees on the lower level and those with seat privileges above. A continuous trickle of humanity filtered off the expressway, across the decelerating strips to localways or into the stationaries that led under arches or over bridges into the endless mazes of the City Sections. Another trickle, just as continuous, worked inward from the other side, across the accelerating strips and onto the expressway.\par
There were the infinite lights: the luminous walls and ceilings that seemed to drip cool, even phosphorescence; the flashing advertisements screaming for attention; the harsh, steady gleam of the \ldblquote lightworms\rdblquote  that directed,\par
\pard\li1440\ri1440\sb120\sa120\qj\fs20 THIS WAY TO JERSEY SECTIONS, FOLLOW ARROWS TO EAST RIVER SHUTTLE, UPPER LEVEL FOR ALL WAYS TO LONG ISLAND SECTIONS\par
\pard\fi216\qj\fs24 Most of all there was the noise that was inseparable from life: the sound of millions talking, laughing, coughing, calling, humming, breathing.\par
No directions anywhere to Spacetown, thought Baley.\par
He stepped from strip to strip with the ease of a lifetime\rquote s practice. Children learned to \ldblquote hop the strips\rdblquote  as soon as they learned to walk. Baley scarcely felt the jerk of acceleration as his velocity increased with each step. He was not even aware that he leaned forward against the force. In thirty seconds he had reached the final sixty-mile-an-hour strip and could step aboard the railed and glassed-in moving platform that was the expressway.\par
No directions to Spacetown, he thought.\par
No need for directions. If you\rquote ve business there, you know the way. If you don\rquote t know the way, you\rquote ve no business there. When Spacetown was first established some twenty-five years earlier, there was a strong tendency to make a showplace out of it. The hordes of the City herded in that direction.\par
The Spacers put a stop to that. Politely (they were always polite), but without any compromise with tact, they put up a force barrier between themselves and the City. They established a combination Immigration Service and Customs Inspection. If you had business, you identified yourself, allowed yourself to be searched, and submitted to a medical examination and a routine disinfection.\par
It gave rise to dissatisfaction. Naturally. More dissatisfaction than it deserved. Enough dissatisfaction to put a serious spoke in the program of modernization. Baley remembered the Barrier Riots. He had been part of the mob that had suspended itself from the rails of the expressways, crowded onto the seats in disregard of rating privileges, run recklessly along and across the strips at the risk of a broken body, and remained just outside the Spacetown barrier for two days, shouting slogans and destroying City property out of sheer frustration.\par
Baley could still sing the chants of the time if he put his mind to it. There was \ldblquote Man Was Born on Mother Earth, Do You Hear?\rdblquote  to an old folk tune with the gibberish refrain, \ldblquote Hinky-dinky-parley-voo.\rdblquote\par
\par
\ldblquote Man was born on Mother Earth, do you hear?\par
Earth\rquote s the world that gave him birth, do you hear?\par
Spacer, get you off the face\par
Of Mother Earth and into space.\par
Dirty Spacer, do you hear?\rdblquote\par
\par
There were hundreds of verses. A few were witty, most were stupid, many were obscene. Every one, however, ended with \ldblquote Dirty Spacer, do you hear?\rdblquote  Dirty, dirty. It was the futile throwing back in the face of the Spacers their most keenly felt insult: their insistence on considering the natives of Earth as disgustingly diseased.\par
The Spacers didn\rquote t leave, of course. It wasn\rquote t even necessary for them to bring any of their offensive weapons into play. Earth\rquote s outmoded fleet had long since learned that it was suicide to venture near any Outer World ship. Earth planes that had ventured over the Spacetown area in the very early days of its establishment had simply disappeared. At the most, a shredded wing tip might tumble down to Earth.\par
And no mob could be so maddened as to forget the effect of the subetheric hand disruptors used on Earthmen in the wars of a century ago.\par
So the Spacers sat behind their barrier, which itself was the product of their own advanced science, and that no method existed on Earth of breaking. They just waited stolidly on the other side of the barrier until the City quieted the mob with somno vapor and retch gas. The below-level penitentiaries rattled afterward with ringleaders, malcontents, and people who had been picked up simply because they were nearest at hand. After a while they were all set free.\par
After a proper interval, the Spacers eased their restrictions. The barrier was removed and the City Police entrusted with the protection of Spacetown\rquote s isolation. Most important of all, the medical examination was more unobtrusive.\par
Now, thought Baley, things might take a reverse trend. If the Spacers seriously thought that an Earthman had entered Spacetown and committed murder, the barrier might go up again. It would be bad. He lifted himself onto the expressway platform, made his way through the standees to the tight spiral ramp that led to the upper level, and there sat down. He didn\rquote t put his rating ticket in his hatband till they passed the last of the Hudson Sections. A C-5 had no seat rights east of the Hudson and west of Long Island, and although there was ample seating available at the moment, one of the way guards would have automatically ousted him. People were increasingly petty about rating privileges and, in all honesty, Baley lumped himself in with \ldblquote people.\rdblquote\par
The air made the characteristic whistling noise as it frictioned off the curved windshields set up above the back of every seat. It made talking a chore, but it was no bar to thinking when you were used to it.\par
Most Earthmen were Medievalists in one way or another. It was an easy thing to be when it meant looking back to a time when Earth was the world and not just one of fifty. The misfit one of fifty at that. Baley\rquote s head snapped to the right at the sound of a female shriek. A woman had dropped her handbag; he saw it for an instant, a pastel pink blob against the dull gray of the strips. A passenger hurrying from the expressway must inadvertently have kicked it in the direction of deceleration and now the owner was whirling away from her property.\par
A corner of Baley\rquote s mouth quirked. She might catch up with it, if she were clever enough to hurry to a strip that moved slower still and if other feet did not kick it this way or that. He would never know whether she would or not. The scene was half a mile to the rear, already.\par
Chances were she wouldn\rquote t. It had been calculated that, on the average, something was dropped on the strips every three minutes somewhere in the City and not recovered. The Lost and Found Department was a huge proposition. It was just one more complication of modern life.\par
Baley thought: It was simpler once. Everything was simpler. That\rquote s what makes Medievalists.\par
Medievalism took different forms. To the unimaginative Julius Enderby, it meant the adoption of archaisms. Spectacles! Windows!\par
To Baley, it was a study of history. Particularly the history of folkways.\par
The City now! New York City in which he lived and had his being. Larger than any City but Los Angeles. More populous than any but Shanghai. It was only three centuries old.\par
To be sure, something had existed in the same geographic area before then that had been called New York City. That primitive gathering of population had existed for three thousand years, not three hundred, but it hadn\rquote t been a City.\par
There were no Cities then. There were just huddles of dwelling places large and small, open to the air. They were something like the Spacer\rquote s Domes, only much different, of course. These huddles (the largest barely reached ten million in population and most never reached one million) were scattered all over Earth by the thousands. By modern standards, they had been completely inefficient, economically. Efficiency had been forced on Earth with increasing population. Two billion people, three billion, even five billion could be supported by the planet by progressive lowering of the standard of living. When the population reaches eight billion, however, semi-starvation becomes too much like the real thing. A radical change had to take place in man\rquote s culture, particularly when it turned out that the Outer Worlds (which had merely been Earth\rquote s colonies a thousand years before) were tremendously serious in their immigration restrictions.\par
The radical change had been the gradual formation of the Cities over a thousand years of Earth\rquote s history. Efficiency implied bigness. Even in Medieval times that had been realized, perhaps unconsciously. Home industry gave way to factories and factories to continental industries.\par
Think of the inefficiency of a hundred thousand houses for a hundred thousand families as compared with a hundred-thousand-unit Section; a book-film collection in each house as compared with a Section film concentrate; independent video for each family as compared with video-piping systems.\par
For that matter, take the simple folly of endless duplication of kitchens and bathrooms as compared with the thoroughly efficient diners and shower rooms made possible by City culture.\par
More and more the villages, towns, and \ldblquote cities\rdblquote  of Earth died and were swallowed by the Cities. Even the early prospects of atomic war only slowed the trend. With the invention of the force shield, the trend became a headlong race.\par
City culture meant optimum distribution of food, increasing utilization of yeasts and hydroponics. New York City spread over two thousand square miles and at the last census its population was well over twenty million. There were some eight hundred Cities on Earth, average population, ten million.\par
Each City became a semiautonomous unit, economically all but self-sufficient. It could roof itself in, gird itself about, burrow itself under. It became a steel cave, a tremendous, self-contained cave of steel and concrete.\par
It could lay itself out scientifically. At the center was the enormous complex of administrative offices. In careful orientation to one another and to the whole were the large residential Sections connected and interlaced by the expressway and the localways. Toward the outskirts were the factories, the hydroponic plants, the yeast-culture vats, the power plants. Through all the melee were the water pipes and sewage ducts, schools, prisons and shops, power lines and communication beams.\par
There was no doubt about it: the City was the culmination of man\rquote s mastery over the environment. Not space travel, not the fifty colonized worlds that were now so haughtily independent, but the City.\par
Practically none of Earth\rquote s population lived outside the Cities. Outside was the wilderness, the open sky that few men could face with anything like equanimity. To be sure, the open space was necessary. It held the water that men must have, the coal and the wood that were the ultimate raw materials for plastics and for the eternally growing yeast. (Petroleum had long since gone, but oil-rich strains of yeast were an adequate substitute.) The land between the Cities still held the mines, and was still used to a larger extent than most men realized for growing food and grazing stock. It was inefficient, but beef, pork, and grain always found a luxury market and could be used for export purposes.\par
But few humans were required to run the mines and ranches, to exploit the farms and pipe the water, and these supervised at long distance. Robots did the work better and required less.\par
Robots! That was the one huge irony. It was on Earth that the positronic brain was invented and on Earth that robots had first been put to productive use.\par
Not on the Outer Worlds. Of course, the Outer Worlds always acted as though robots had been born of their culture.\par
In a way, of course, the culmination of robot economy had taken place on the Outer Worlds. Here on Earth, robots had always been restricted to the mines and farmlands. Only in the last quarter century, under the urgings of the Spacers, had robots filtered their slow way into the Cities.\par
The Cities were good. Everyone but the Medievalists knew that there was no substitute, no reasonable substitute. The only trouble was that they wouldn\rquote t stay good. Earth\rquote s population was still rising. Some day, with all that the Cities could do, the available calories per person would simply fall below basic subsistence level.\par
It was all the worse because of the existence of the Spacers, the descendants of the early emigrants from Earth, living in luxury on their under-populated robot-ridden worlds out in space. They were coolly determined to keep the comfort that grew out of the emptiness of their worlds and for that purpose they kept their birth rate down and immigrants from teeming Earth out. And this--\par
Spacetown coming up!\par
A nudge at Baley\rquote s unconscious warned him that he was approaching the Newark Section. If he stayed where he was much longer, he\rquote d find himself speeding southwestward to the Trenton Section turning of the way, through the heart of the warm and musty-odored yeast country.\par
It was a matter of timing. It took so long to shinny down the ramp, so long to squirm through the grunting standees, so long to slip along the railing and out an opening, so long to hop across the decelerating strips.\par
When he was done, he was precisely at the off-shooting of the proper stationary. At no time did he time his steps consciously. If he had, he would probably have missed.\par
Baley found himself in unusual semi-isolation. Only a policeman was with him inside the stationary and, except for the whirring of the expressway, there was an almost uncomfortable silence.\par
The policeman approached, and Baley flashed his badge impatiently. The policeman lifted his hand in permission to pass on.\par
The passage narrowed and curved sharply three or four times. That was obviously purposeful. Mobs of Earthmen couldn\rquote t gather in it with any degree of comfort and direct charges were impossible.\par
Baley was thankful that the arrangements were for him to meet his partner this side of Spacetown. He didn\rquote t like the thought of a medical examination any better for its reputed politeness.\par
A Spacer was standing at the point where a series of doors marked the openings to the open air and the domes of Spacetown. He was dressed in the Earth fashion, trousers tight at the waist, loose at the ankle, and color-striped down the seam of each leg. He wore an ordinary Textron shirt, open collar, seam-zipped, and ruffled at the wrist, but he was a Spacer. There was something about the way he stood, the way he held his head, the calm and unemotional lines of his broad, high-cheekboned face, the careful set of his short, bronze hair lying flatly backward and without a part, that marked him off from the native Earthman.\par
Baley approached woodenly and said in a monotone, \ldblquote I am Plain-clothes Man Elijah Baley, Police Department, City of New York, Rating C-5.\rdblquote\par
He showed his credentials and went on, \ldblquote I have been instructed to meet R. Daneel Olivaw at Spacetown Approachway.\rdblquote  He looked at his watch. \ldblquote I am a little early. May I request the announcement of my presence?\rdblquote\par
He felt more than a little cold inside. He was used, after a fashion, to the Earth-model robots. The Spacer models would be different. He had never met one, but there was nothing more common on Earth than the horrid whispered stories about the tremendous and formidable robots that worked in superhuman fashion on the far-off, glittering Outer Worlds. He found himself gritting his teeth.\par
The Spacer, who had listened politely, said, \ldblquote It will not be necessary. I have been waiting for you.\rdblquote\par
Baley\rquote s hand went up automatically, then dropped. So did his long chin, looking longer in the process. He didn\rquote t quite manage to say anything. The words froze.\par
The Spacer said, \ldblquote I shall introduce myself. I am R. Daneel Olivaw.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes? Am I making a mistake? I thought the first initial--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Quite so. I am a robot. Were you not told?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I was told.\rdblquote  Baley put a damp hand to his hair and smoothed it back unnecessarily. Then he held it out. \ldblquote I\rquote m sorry, Mr. Olivaw. I don\rquote t know what I was thinking of. Good day. I am Elijah Baley, your partner.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good.\rdblquote  The robot\rquote s hand closed on his with a smoothly increasing pressure that reached a comfortably friendly peak, then declined. \ldblquote Yet I seem to detect disturbance. May I ask that you be frank with me? It is best to have as many relevant facts as possible in a relationship such as ours. And it is customary on my world for partners to call one another by the familiar name. I trust that that is not counter to your own customs.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s just, you see, that you don\rquote t look like a robot,\rdblquote  said Baley, desperately.\par
\ldblquote And that disturbs you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It shouldn\rquote t, I suppose, Da--Daneel. Are they all like you on your world?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote There are individual differences, Elijah, as with men.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Our own robots ... Well, you can tell they\rquote re robots, you understand. You look like a Spacer.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh, I see. You expected a rather crude model and were surprised. Yet it is only logical that our people use a robot of pronounced humanoid characteristics in this case if we expected to avoid unpleasantness. Is that not so?\rdblquote\par
It was certainly so. An obvious robot roaming the City would be in quick trouble.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then let us leave now, Elijah.\rdblquote\par
They made their way back to the expressway. R. Daneel caught the purpose of the accelerating strips and maneuvered along them with a quick proficiency. Baley, who had begun by moderating his speed, ended by hastening it in annoyance.\par
The robot kept pace. He showed no awareness of any difficulty. Baley wondered if R. Daneel were not deliberately moving slower than he might. He reached the endless cars of expressway and scrambled aboard with what amounted to outright recklessness. The robot followed easily.\par
Baley was red. He swallowed twice and said, \ldblquote I\rquote ll stay down here with you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Down here?\rdblquote  The robot, apparently oblivious to both the noise and the rhythmic swaying of the platform said, \ldblquote Is my information wrong? I was told that a rating of C-5 entitled one to a seat on the upper level under certain conditions.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You\rquote re right. I can go up there, but you can\rquote t.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why can I not go up with you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It takes a C-5, Daneel.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I am aware of that.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You\rquote re not a C-5.\rdblquote  Talking was difficult. The hiss of frictioning air was louder on the less shielded lower level and Baley was understandably anxious to keep his voice low.\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote Why should I not be a C-5? I am your partner and, consequently, of equal rank. I was given this.\rdblquote\par
From an inner shirt pocket he produced a rectangular credential card, quite genuine. The name given was Daneel Olivaw, without the all-important initial. The rating was [C-5].\par
\ldblquote Come on up,\rdblquote  said Baley, woodenly.\par
Baley looked straight ahead, once seated, angry with himself, very conscious of the robot sitting next to him. He had been caught twice. First he had not recognized R. Daneel as a robot; secondly, he had not guessed the logic that demanded R. Daneel be given C-5 rating.\par
The trouble was, of course, that he was not the plain-clothes man of popular myth. He was not incapable of surprise, imperturbable of appearance, infinite of adaptability, and lightning of mental grasp. He had never supposed he was, but he had never regretted the lack before.\par
What made him regret it was that, to all appearances, R. Daneel Olivaw was that very myth, embodied.\par
He had to be. He was a robot.\par
Baley began to find excuses for himself. He was accustomed to the robots like R. Sammy at the office. He had expected a creature with a skin of a hard and glossy plastic, nearly dead white in color. He had expected an expression fixed at an unreal level of inane good humor. He had expected jerky, faintly uncertain motions.\par
R. Daneel was none of it.\par
Baley risked a quick side glance at the robot. R. Daneel turned simultaneously to meet his eye and nod gravely. His lips had moved naturally when he had spoken and did not simply remain parted as those of Earth robots did. There had been glimpses of an articulating tongue.\par
Baley thought: Why does he have to sit there so calmly? This must be something completely new to him. Noise, lights, crowds!\par
Baley got up, brushed past R. Daneel, and said, \ldblquote Follow me!\rdblquote\par
Off the expressway, down the decelerating strips.\par
Baley thought: Good Lord, what do I tell Jessie, anyway?\par
The coming of the robot had rattled that thought out of his head, but it was coming back with sickening urgency now that they were heading down the localway that led into the very jaws of the Lower Bronx Section.\par
He said, \ldblquote This is all one building, you know, Daneel; everything you see, the whole City. Twenty million people live in it. The expressways go continuously, night and day, at sixty miles an hour. There are two hundred and fifty miles of it altogether and hundreds of miles of localways.\rdblquote\par
Any minute now, Baley thought, I\rquote ll be figuring out how many tons of yeast product New York eats per day and how many cubic feet of water we drink and how many megawatts of power the atomic piles deliver per hour.\par
Daneel said, \ldblquote I was informed of this and other similar data in my briefing.\rdblquote\par
Baley thought: Well, that covers the food, drink, and power situation, too, I suppose. Why try to impress a robot?\par
They were at East 182\super nd\nosupersub  Street and in not more than two hundred yards they would be at the elevator banks that fed those steel and concrete layers of apartments that included his own.\par
He was on the point of saying, \ldblquote This way,\rdblquote  when he was stopped by a knot of people gathering outside the brilliantly lighted force door of one of the many retail departments that lined the ground levels solidly in this Section.\par
He asked of the nearest person in an automatic tone of authority, \ldblquote What\rquote s going on?\rdblquote\par
The man he addressed, who was standing on tiptoe, said, \ldblquote Damned if I know. I just got here.\rdblquote\par
Someone else said, excitedly, \ldblquote They got those lousy R\rquote s in there. I think maybe they\rquote ll throw them out here. Boy, I\rquote d like to take them apart.\rdblquote\par
Baley looked nervously at Daneel, but, if the latter caught the significance of the words or even heard them, he did not show it by any outward sign.\par
Baley plunged into the crowd. \ldblquote Let me through. Let me through. Police!\rdblquote\par
They made way. Baley caught words behind him.\par
\ldblquote ... take them apart. Nut by nut. Split them down the seams slowlike ...\rdblquote  And someone else laughed.\par
Baley turned a little cold. The City was the acme of efficiency, but it made demands of its inhabitants. It asked them to live in a tight routine and order their lives under a strict and scientific control. Occasionally, built-up inhibitions exploded.\par
He remembered the Barrier Riots.\par
Reasons for anti-robot rioting certainly existed. Men who found themselves faced with the prospect of the desperate minimum involved in declassification, after half a lifetime of effort, could not decide cold-bloodedly that individual robots were not to blame. Individual robots could at least be struck at.\par
One could not strike at something called \ldblquote governmental policy\rdblquote  or at a slogan like \ldblquote Higher production with robot labor.\rdblquote\par
The government called it growing pains. It shook its collective head sorrowfully and assured everyone that after a necessary period of adjustment, a new and better life would exist for all.\par
But the Medievalist movement expanded along with the declassification process. Men grew desperate and the border between bitter frustration and wild destruction is sometimes easily crossed.\par
At this moment, minutes could be separating the pent-up hostility of the crowd from a flashing orgy of blood and smash.\par
Baley writhed his way desperately to the force door.\par
\pard\keepn\pagebb\s1\sb240\sa60\qc\kerning32\b\f2\fs32 Chapter 3\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa240\qc\kerning0\i\fs28 INCIDENT AT A SHOE COUNTER\par
\pard\fi216\qj\b0\i0\f0\fs24 The interior of the store was emptier than the street outside. The manager, with commendable foresight, had thrown the force door early in the game, preventing potential troublemakers from entering. It also kept the principles in the argument from leaving, but that was minor.\par
Baley got through the force door by using his officer\rquote s neutralizer. Unexpectedly, he found R. Daneel still behind him. The robot was pocketing a neutralizer of his own, a slim one, smaller and neater than the standard police model.\par
The manager ran to them instantly, talking loudly. \ldblquote Officers, my clerks have been assigned me by the City. I am perfectly within my rights.\rdblquote\par
There were three robots standing rodlike at the rear of the department. Six humans were standing near the force door. They were all women.\par
\ldblquote All right, now,\rdblquote  said Baley, crisply. \ldblquote What\rquote s going on? What\rquote s all the fuss about?\rdblquote\par
One of the women said, shrilly, \ldblquote I came in for shoes. Why can\rquote t I have a decent clerk? Ain\rquote t I respectable?\rdblquote  Her clothing, especially her hat, were just sufficiently extreme to make it more than a rhetorical question. The angry flush that covered her face masked imperfectly her overdone makeup.\par
The manager said, \ldblquote I\rquote ll wait on her myself if I have to, but I can\rquote t wait on all of them, Officer. There\rquote s nothing wrong with my men. They\rquote re registered clerks. I have their spec charts and guarantee slips--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Spec charts,\rdblquote  screamed the woman. She laughed shrilly, turning to the rest. \ldblquote Listen to him. He calls them men! What\rquote s the matter with you anyway? They ain\rquote t men. They\rquote re ro-bots!\rdblquote  She stretched out the syllables. \ldblquote And I tell you what they do, in case you don\rquote t know. They steal jobs from men. That\rquote s why the government always protects them. They work for nothin\rquote  and, on account o\rquote  that, families gotta live out in the barracks and eat raw yeast mush. Decent hard-working families. We\rquote d smash up all the ro-bots, if I was boss. I tell you that!\rdblquote\par
The others talked confusedly and there was always the growing rumble from the crowd just beyond the force door.\par
Baley was conscious, brutally conscious, of R. Daneel Olivaw standing at his elbow. He looked at the clerks. They were Earthmade, and even on that scale, relatively inexpensive models. They were just robots made to know a few simple things. They would know all the style numbers, their prices, the sizes available in each. They could keep track of stock fluctuations, probably better than humans could, since they would have no outside interests. They could compute the proper orders for the next week. They could measure the customer\rquote s foot.\par
In themselves, harmless. As a group, incredibly dangerous.\par
Baley could sympathize with the woman more deeply than he would have believed possible the day before. No, two hours before. He could feel R. Daneel\rquote s nearness and he wondered if R. Daneel could not replace an ordinary plain-clothes man [C-1]. He could see the barracks, as he thought that. He could taste the yeast mush. He could remember his father.\par
His father had been a nuclear physicist, with a rating that had put him in the top percentile of the City. There had been an accident at the power plant and his father had borne the blame. He had been declassified. Baley did not know the details; it had happened when he was a year old.\par
But he remembered the barracks of his childhood; the grinding communal existence just this side of the edge of bearability. He remembered his mother not at all; she had not survived long. His father he recalled well, a sodden man, morose and lost, speaking sometimes of the past in hoarse, broken sentences.\par
His father died, still declassified, when Lije was eight. Young Baley and his two older sisters moved into the Section orphanage. Children\rquote s Level, they called it. His mother\rquote s brother, Uncle Boris, was himself too poor to prevent that.\par
So it continued hard. And it was hard going through school, with no father-derived status privileges to smooth the way.\par
And now he had to stand in the middle of a growing riot and beat down men and women who, after all, only feared declassification for themselves and those they loved, as he himself did.\par
Tonelessly, he said to the woman who had already spoken, \ldblquote Let\rquote s not have any trouble, lady. The clerks aren\rquote t doing you any harm.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Sure they ain\rquote t done me no harm,\rdblquote  sopranoed the woman. \ldblquote They ain\rquote t gonna, either. Think I\rquote ll let their cold, greasy fingers touch me? I came in here expecting to get treated like a human being. I\rquote m a citizen. I got a right to have human beings wait on me. And listen, I got two kids waiting for supper. They can\rquote t go to the Section kitchen without me, like they was orphans. I gotta get out of here.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, now,\rdblquote  said Baley, feeling his temper slipping, \ldblquote if you had let yourself be waited on, you\rquote d have been out of here by now. You\rquote re just making trouble for nothing. Come on now.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well!\rdblquote  The woman registered shock. \ldblquote Maybe you think you can talk to me like I was dirt. Maybe it\rquote s time the guv\rquote min\rquote  reelized robots ain\rquote t the only things on Earth. I\rquote m a hard-working woman and I\rquote ve got rights.\rdblquote  She went on and on and on.\par
Baley felt harassed and caught. The situation was out of hand. Even if the woman would consent to be waited on, the waiting crowd was ugly enough for anything.\par
There must be a hundred crammed outside the display window now. In the few minutes since the plain-clothes men had entered the store, the crowd had doubled.\par
\ldblquote What is the usual procedure in such a case?\rdblquote  asked R. Daneel Olivaw, suddenly.\par
Baley nearly jumped. He said, \ldblquote This is an unusual case in the first place.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What is the law?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The R\rquote s have been duly assigned here. They\rquote re registered clerks. There\rquote s nothing illegal about that.\rdblquote\par
They were speaking in whispers. Baley tried to look official and threatening. Olivaw\rquote s expression, as always, meant nothing at all.\par
\ldblquote In that case,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel, \ldblquote order the woman to let herself be waited on or to leave.\rdblquote\par
Baley lifted a corner of his lip briefly. \ldblquote It\rquote s a mob we have to deal with, not a woman. There\rquote s nothing to do but call a riot squad.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It should not be necessary for citizens to require more than one officer of the law to direct what should be done,\rdblquote  said Daneel.\par
He turned his broad face to the store manager. \ldblquote Open the force door, sir.\rdblquote\par
Baley\rquote s arm shot forward to seize R. Daneel\rquote s shoulder, swing him about. He arrested the motion. If, at this moment, two law men quarreled openly, it would mean the end of all chance for a peaceful solution.\par
The manager protested, looked at Baley. Baley did not meet his eye.\par
R. Daneel said, unmoved, \ldblquote I order you with the authority of the law.\rdblquote\par
The manager bleated, \ldblquote I\rquote ll hold the City responsible for any damage to the goods or fixtures. I serve notice that I\rquote m doing this under orders.\rdblquote\par
The barrier went down; men and women crowded in. There was a happy roar from them. They sensed victory.\par
Baley had heard of similar riots. He had even witnessed one. He had seen robots being lifted by a dozen hands, their heavy unresisting bodies carried backward from straining arm to straining arm. Men yanked and twisted at the metal mimicry of men. They used hammers, force knives, needle guns. They finally reduced the miserable objects to shredded metal and wire. Expensive positronic brains, the most intricate creation of the human mind, were thrown from hand to hand like footballs and mashed to uselessness in a trifle of time.\par
Then, with the genius of destruction so merrily let loose, the mobs turned on anything else that could be taken apart.\par
The robot clerks could have no knowledge of any of this, but they squealed as the crowd flooded inward and lifted their arms before their faces as though in a primitive effort at hiding. The woman who had started the fuss, frightened at seeing it grow suddenly so far beyond what she had expected, gasped, \ldblquote Here, now. Here, now.\rdblquote\par
Her hat was shoved down over her face and her voice became only a meaningless shrillness.\par
The manager was shrieking, \ldblquote Stop them, Officer. Stop them!\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel spoke. Without apparent effort, his voice was suddenly decibels higher than a human\rquote s voice had a right to be. Of course, thought Baley for the tenth time, he\rquote s not--\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote The next man who moves will be shot.\rdblquote\par
Someone well in the back yelled, \ldblquote Get him!\rdblquote\par
But for a moment, no one moved.\par
R. Daneel stepped nimbly upon a chair and from that to the top of a Transtex display case. The colored fluorescence gleaming through the slits of polarized molecular film turned his cool, smooth face into something unearthly.\par
Unearthly, thought Baley.\par
The tableau held as R. Daneel waited, a quietly formidable person. R. Daneel said crisply, \ldblquote You are saying, This man is holding a neuronic whip, or a tickler. If we all rush forward, we will bear him down and at most one or two of us will be hurt and even they will recover. Meanwhile, we will do just as we wish and to space with law and order.\rdblquote\par
His voice was neither harsh nor angry, but it carried authority. It had the tone of confident command. He went on, \ldblquote You are mistaken. What I hold is not a neuronic whip, nor is it a tickler. It is a blaster and very deadly. I will use it and I will not aim over your heads. I will kill many of you before you seize me, perhaps most of you. I am serious. I look serious, do I not?\rdblquote\par
There was motion at the outskirts, but the crowd no longer grew. If newcomers still stopped out of curiosity, others were hurrying away. Those nearest R. Daneel were holding their breath, trying desperately not to sway forward in response to the mass pressure of the bodies behind them.\par
The woman with the hat broke the spell. In a sudden whirlpool of sobbing, she yelled, \ldblquote He\rquote s gonna kill us. I ain\rquote t done nothing. Oh, lemme outta here.\rdblquote\par
She turned, but faced an immovable wall of crammed men and women. She sank to her knees. The backward motion in the silent crowd grew more pronounced.\par
R. Daneel jumped down from the display counter and said, \ldblquote I will now walk to the door. I will shoot the man or woman who touches me.\par
When I reach the door, I will shoot any man or woman who is not moving about his business. This woman here--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, no,\rdblquote  yelled the woman with the hat, \ldblquote I tell ya I didn\rquote t do nothing. I didn\rquote t mean no harm. I don\rquote t want no shoes. I just wanta go home.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote This woman here,\rdblquote  went on Daneel, \ldblquote will remain. She will be waited on.\rdblquote\par
He stepped forward.\par
The mob faced him dumbly. Baley closed his eyes. It wasn\rquote t his fault, he thought desperately. There\rquote ll be murder done and the worst mess in the world, but they forced a robot on me as partner. They gave him equal status.\par
It wouldn\rquote t do. He didn\rquote t believe himself. He might have stopped R. Daneel at the start. He might at any moment have put in the call for a squad car. He had let R. Daneel take responsibility, instead, and had felt a cowardly relief. When he tried to tell himself that R. Daneel\rquote s personality simply dominated the situation, he was filled with a sudden self-loathing. A robot dominating.\par
There was no unusual noise, no shouting and cursing, no groans, no yells. He opened his eyes.\par
They were dispersing.\par
The manager of the store was cooling down, adjusting his twisted jacket, smoothing his hair, muttering angry threats at the vanishing crowd.\par
The smooth, fading whistle of a squad car came to a halt just outside. Baley thought: Sure, when it\rquote s all over.\par
The manager plucked his sleeve. \ldblquote Let\rquote s have no more trouble, Officer.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote There won\rquote t be any trouble.\rdblquote\par
It was easy to get rid of the squad-car police. They had come in response to reports of a crowd in the street. They knew no details and could see for themselves that the street was clear. R. Daneel stepped aside and showed no sign of interest as Baley explained to the men in the squad car, minimizing the event and completely burying R. Daneel\rquote s part in it.\par
Afterward, he pulled R. Daneel to one side, against the steel and concrete of one of the building shafts.\par
\ldblquote Listen,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote I\rquote m not trying to steal your show, you understand.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Steal my show? Is it one of your Earth idioms?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I didn\rquote t report your part in this.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I do not know all your customs. On my world, a complete report is usual, but perhaps it is not so on your world. In any case, civil rebellion was averted. That is the important thing, is it not?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Is it? Now you look here.\rdblquote  Baley tried to sound as forceful as possible under the necessity of speaking in an angry whisper. \ldblquote Don\rquote t you ever do it again.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Never again insist on the observance of law? If I am not to do that, what then is my purpose?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Don\rquote t ever threaten a human being with a blaster again.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I would not have fired under any circumstances, Elijah, as you know very well. I am incapable of hurting a human. But, as you see, I did not have to fire. I did not expect to have to.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That was the purest luck, your not having to fire. Don\rquote t take that kind of chance again. I could have pulled the grandstand stunt you did--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Grandstand stunt? What is that?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Never mind. Get the sense from what I\rquote m saying. I could have pulled a blaster on the crowd myself. I had the blaster to do it with. But it isn\rquote t the kind of gamble I am justified in taking, or you, either. It was safer to call squad cars to the scene than to try one-man heroics.\rdblquote\par
R Daneel considered. He shook his head. \ldblquote I think you are wrong, partner Elijah. My briefing on human characteristics here among the people of Earth includes the information that, unlike the men of the Outer Worlds, they are trained from birth to accept authority. Apparently this is the result of your way of living. One man, representing authority firmly enough, was quite sufficient, as I proved. Your own desire for a squad car was only an expression, really, of your almost instinctive wish for superior authority to take responsibility out of your hands. On my own world, I admit that what I did would have been most unjustified.\rdblquote\par
Baley\rquote s long face was red with anger. \ldblquote If they had recognized you as a robot--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I was sure they wouldn\rquote t.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote In any case, remember that you are a robot. Nothing more than a robot. Just a robot. Like those clerks in the shoe store.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But this is obvious.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And you\rquote re not human.\rdblquote  Baley felt himself being driven into cruelty against his will.\par
R. Daneel seemed to consider that. He said, \ldblquote The division between human and robot is perhaps not as significant as that between intelligence and non-intelligence.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Maybe on your world,\rdblquote  said Baley, \ldblquote but not on Earth.\rdblquote\par
He looked at his watch and could scarcely make out that he was an hour and a quarter late. His throat was dry and raw with the thought that R. Daneel had won the first round, had won when he himself had stood by helpless.\par
He thought of the youngster, Vince Barrett, the teenager whom R. Sammy had replaced. And of himself, Elijah Baley, whom R. Daneel could replace. Jehoshaphat, at least his father had been thrown out because of an accident that had done damage, that had killed people. Maybe it was his fault; Baley didn\rquote t know. Suppose he had been eased out to make room for a mechanical physicist. Just for that. For no other reason. Nothing he could do about it.\par
He said, curtly, \ldblquote Let\rquote s go now. I\rquote ve got to get you home.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote You see, it is not proper to make any distinction of lesser meaning than the fact of intel--\rdblquote\par
Baley\rquote s voice rose. \ldblquote All right. The subject is closed. Jessie is waiting for us.\rdblquote  He walked in the direction of the nearest intrasection communo-tube. \ldblquote I\rquote d better call and tell her we\rquote re on our way up.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Jessie?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote My wife.\rdblquote\par
Jehoshaphat, thought Baley, I\rquote m in a fine mood to face Jessie.\par
\pard\keepn\pagebb\s1\sb240\sa60\qc\kerning32\b\f2\fs32 Chapter 4\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa240\qc\kerning0\i\fs28 INTRODUCTION TO A FAMILY\par
\pard\fi216\qj\b0\i0\f0\fs24 It had been her name that had first made Elijah Baley really conscious of Jessie. He had met her at the Section Christmas party back in \rquote 02, over a bowl of punch. He had just finished his schooling, just taken his first job with the City, just moved into the Section. He was living in one of the bachelor alcoves of Common Room 122A. Not bad for a bachelor alcove.\par
She was handing out the punch. \ldblquote I\rquote m Jessie,\rdblquote  she said. \ldblquote Jessie Navodny. I don\rquote t know you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Baley,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote Lije Baley. I\rquote ve just moved into the Section.\rdblquote  He took his glass of punch and smiled mechanically. She impressed him as a cheerful and friendly person, so he stayed near her. He was new and it is a lonely feeling to be at a party where you find yourself watching people standing about in cliques of which you aren\rquote t a part. Later, when enough alcohol had trickled down throats, it might be better.\par
Meanwhile, he remained at the punch bowl, watching the folks come and go and sipping thoughtfully.\par
\ldblquote I helped make the punch.\rdblquote  The girl\rquote s voice broke in upon him. \ldblquote I can guarantee it. Do you want more?\rdblquote\par
Baley realized his little glass was empty. He smiled and said, \ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote  The girl\rquote s face was oval and not precisely pretty, mostly because of a slightly overlarge nose. Her dress was demure and she wore her light brown hair in a series of ringlets over her forehead.\par
She joined him in the next punch and he felt better.\par
\ldblquote Jessie,\rdblquote  he said, feeling the name with his tongue. \ldblquote It\rquote s nice. Do you mind if I use it when I\rquote m talking to you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Certainly. If you want to. Do you know what it\rquote s short for?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Jessica?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You\rquote ll never guess.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I can\rquote t think of anything else.\rdblquote\par
She laughed and said archly, \ldblquote My full name is Jezebel.\rdblquote\par
That was when his interest flared. He put his punch glass down and said, intently, \ldblquote No, really?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Honestly. I\rquote m not kidding. Jezebel. It\rquote s my real-for-true name on all my records. My parents liked the sound of it.\rdblquote\par
She was quite proud of it, even though there was never a less likely Jezebel in the world.\par
Baley said, seriously, \ldblquote My name is Elijah, you know. My full name, I mean.\rdblquote\par
It didn\rquote t register with her.\par
He said, \ldblquote Elijah was Jezebel\rquote s great enemy.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He was?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why, sure. In the Bible.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh? I didn\rquote t know that. Now isn\rquote t that funny? I hope that doesn\rquote t mean you\rquote ll have to be my enemy in real life.\rdblquote\par
From the very beginning there was no question of that. It was the coincidence of names at first that made her more than just a pleasant girl at the punch bowl. But afterward he had grown to find her cheerful, tender-hearted, and, finally, even pretty. He appreciated her cheerfulness particularly. His own sardonic view of life needed the antidote.\par
But Jessie never seemed to mind his long grave face.\par
\ldblquote Oh, goodness,\rdblquote  she said, \ldblquote what if you do look like an awful lemon? I know you\rquote re not really, and I guess if you were always grinning away like clockwork, the way I do, we\rquote d just explode when we got together. You stay the way you are, Lije, and keep me from floating away.\rdblquote\par
And she kept Lije Baley from sinking down. He applied for a small Couples apartment and got a contingent admission pending marriage.\par
He showed it to her and said, \ldblquote Will you fix it so I can get out of Bachelor\rquote s, Jessie? I don\rquote t like it there.\rdblquote\par
Maybe it wasn\rquote t the most romantic proposal in the world, but Jessie liked it.\par
Baley could only remember one occasion on which Jessie\rquote s habitual cheer deserted her completely and that, too, had involved her name. It was in their first year of marriage, and their baby had not yet come.\par
In fact, it had been the very month in which Bentley was conceived.\par
(Their I.Q. rating, Genetic Values status, and his position in the Department entitled him to two children, of which the first might be conceived during the first year.) Maybe, as Baley thought back upon it, Bentley\rquote s beginnings might explain part of her unusual skittishness. Jessie had been drooping a bit because of Baley\rquote s consistent overtime.\par
She said, \ldblquote It\rquote s embarrassing to eat alone at the kitchen every night.\rdblquote\par
Baley was tired and out of sorts. He said, \ldblquote Why should it be? You can meet some nice single fellows there.\rdblquote\par
And of course she promptly fired up. \ldblquote Do you think I can\rquote t make an impression on them, Lije Baley?\rdblquote\par
Maybe it was just because he was tired; maybe because Julius Enderby, a classmate of his, had moved up another notch on the C-scale rating while he himself had not. Maybe it was simply because he was a little tired of having her try to act up to the name she bore when she was nothing of the sort and never could be anything of the sort.\par
In any case, he said bitingly, \ldblquote I suppose you can, but I don\rquote t think you\rquote ll try. I wish you\rquote d forget your name and be yourself.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ll be just what I please.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Trying to be Jezebel won\rquote t get you anywhere. If you must know the truth, the name doesn\rquote t mean what you think, anyway. The Jezebel of the Bible was a faithful wife and a good one according to her lights. She had no lovers that we know of, cut no high jinks, and took no moral liberties at all.\rdblquote\par
Jessie stared angrily at him. \ldblquote That isn\rquote t so. I\rquote ve heard the phrase, \lquote a painted Jezebel.\rquote  I know what that means.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Maybe you think you do, but listen. After Jezebel\rquote s husband, King Ahab died, her son, Jehoram, became king. One of the captains of his army, Jehu, rebelled against him and assassinated him. Jehu then rode to Jezreel where the old queen-mother, Jezebel, was residing. Jezebel heard of his coming and knew that he could only mean to kill her. In her pride and courage, she painted her face and dressed herself in her best clothes so that she could meet him as a haughty and defiant queen. He had her thrown from the window of the palace and killed, but she made a good end, according to my notions. And that\rquote s what people refer to when they speak of \lquote a painted Jezebel,\rquote  whether they know it or not.\rdblquote\par
The next evening Jessie said in a small voice, \ldblquote I\rquote ve been reading the Bible, Lije.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What?\rdblquote  For a moment, Baley was honestly bewildered.\par
\ldblquote The parts about Jezebel.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh! Jessie, I\rquote m sorry if I hurt your feelings. I was being childish.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No. No.\rdblquote  She pushed his hand from her waist and sat on the couch, cool and upright, with a definite space between them. \ldblquote It\rquote s good to know the truth. I don\rquote t want to be fooled by not knowing. So I read about her. She was a wicked woman, Lije.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, her enemies wrote those chapters. We don\rquote t know her side.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote She killed all the prophets of the Lord she could lay her hands on.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote So they say she did.\rdblquote  Baley felt about in his pocket for a stick of chewing gum. (In later years he abandoned that habit because Jessie said that with his long face and sad, brown eyes, it made him look like an old cow stuck with an unpleasant wad of grass it couldn\rquote t swallow and wouldn\rquote t spit out.) He said, \ldblquote If you want her side, I could think of some arguments for you. She valued the religion of her ancestors who had been in the land long before the Hebrews came. The Hebrews had their own God, and, what\rquote s more, it was an exclusive God. They weren\rquote t content to worship Him themselves; they wanted everyone in reach to worship Him as well.\par
\ldblquote Jezebel was a conservative, sticking to the old beliefs against the new ones. After all, if the new beliefs had a higher moral content, the old ones were more emotionally satisfying. The fact that she killed priests just marks her as a child of her times. It was the usual method of proselytization in those days. If you read I Kings, you must remember that Elijah (my namesake this time) had a contest with 850 prophets of Baal to see which could bring down fire from heaven. Elijah won and promptly ordered the crowd of onlookers to kill the 850 Baalites. And they did.\rdblquote\par
Jessie bit her lip. \ldblquote What about Naboth\rquote s vineyard, Lije. Here was this Naboth not bothering anybody, except that he refused to sell the King his vineyard. So Jezebel arranged to have people perjure themselves and say that Naboth had committed blasphemy or something.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He was supposed to have blasphemed God and the king,\rdblquote  said Baley.\par
\ldblquote Yes. So they confiscated his property after they executed him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That was wrong. Of course, in modern times, Naboth would have been handled quite easily. If the City wanted his property or even if one of the Medieval nations had wanted his property, the courts would have ordered him off, had him removed by force if necessary, and paid him whatever they considered a fair price. King Ahab didn\rquote t have that way out. Still, Jezebel\rquote s solution was wrong. The only excuse for her is that Ahab was sick and unhappy over the situation and she felt that her love for her husband came ahead of Naboth\rquote s welfare. I keep telling you, she was the model of a faithful wi--\rdblquote\par
Jessie flung herself away from him, red-faced and angry. \ldblquote I think you\rquote re mean and spiteful.\rdblquote\par
He looked at her with complete dismay. \ldblquote What have I done? What\rquote s the matter with you?\rdblquote\par
She left the apartment without answering and spent the evening and half the night at the subetheric video levels, traveling petulantly from showing to showing and using up a two-month supply of her quota allowance (and her husband\rquote s, to boot).\par
When she came back to a still wakeful Lije Baley, she had nothing further to say to him.\par
It occurred to Baley later, much later, that he had utterly smashed an important part of Jessie\rquote s life. Her name had signified something intriguingly wicked to her. It was a delightful makeweight for her prim, over-respectable past. It gave her an aroma of licentiousness, and she adored that.\par
But it was gone. She never mentioned her full name again, not to Lije, not to her friends, and maybe, for all Baley knew, not even to herself. She was Jessie and took to signing her name so.\par
As the days passed she began speaking to him again, and after a week or so their relationship was on the old footing and, with all subsequent quarrels, nothing ever reached that one bad spot of intensity. Only once was there even an indirect reference to the matter. It was in her eighth month of pregnancy. She had left her own position as dietitian\rquote s assistant in Section Kitchen A-23 and with unaccustomed time on her hands was amusing herself in speculation and preparation for the baby\rquote s birth.\par
She said, one evening, \ldblquote What about Bentley?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Pardon me, dear?\rdblquote  said Baley, looking up from a sheaf of work he had brought home with him. (With an additional mouth soon to feed and Jessie\rquote s pay stopped and his own promotions to the non-clerical levels as far off, seemingly, as ever, extra work was necessary.)\par
\ldblquote I mean if the baby\rquote s a boy. What about Bentley as a name?\rdblquote\par
Baley pulled down the corners of his mouth. \ldblquote Bentley Baley? Don\rquote t you think the names are too similar?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t know. It has a swing, I think. Besides, the child can always pick out a middle name to suit himself when he gets older.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, it\rquote s all right with me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Are you sure? I mean ... Maybe you wanted him to be named Elijah?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And be called Junior? I don\rquote t think that\rquote s a good idea. He can name his son Elijah, if he wants to.\rdblquote\par
Then Jessie said, \ldblquote There\rquote s just one thing,\rdblquote  and stopped. After an interval, he looked up. \ldblquote What one thing?\rdblquote\par
She did not quite meet his eye, but she said, forcefully enough, \ldblquote Bentley isn\rquote t a Bible name, is it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  said Baley, \ldblquote I\rquote m quite sure it isn\rquote t.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right, then. I don\rquote t want any Bible names.\rdblquote\par
And that was the only harking back that took place from that time to the day when Elijah Baley was coming home with Robot Daneel Olivaw, when he had been married for more than eighteen years and when his son Bentley Baley (middle name still unclose) was past sixteen.\par
Baley paused before the large double door on which there glowed in large letters PERSONAL-MEN. In smaller letters were written SUBSECTIONS 1A-1E. In still smaller letters, just above the key slit, it stated:\par
\par
\pard\qc\ldblquote In case of loss of key, communicate at once with 27-101-51.\rdblquote\par
\pard\fi216\qj\f1\par
\f0 A man inched past them, inserted an aluminum sliver into the key slit, and walked in. He closed the door behind him, making no attempt to hold it open for Baley. Had he done so, Baley would have been seriously offended. By strong custom men disregarded one another\rquote s presence entirely either within or just outside the Personals. Baley remembered one of the more interesting marital confidences to have been Jessie\rquote s telling him that the situation was quite different at Women\rquote s Personals.\par
She was always saying, \ldblquote I met Josephine Greely at Personal and she said ...\rdblquote\par
It was one of the penalties of civic advancement that when the Baleys were granted permission for the activation of the small washbowl in their bedroom, Jessie\rquote s social life suffered.\par
Baley said, without completely masking his embarrassment, \ldblquote Please wait out here, Daneel.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Do you intend washing?\rdblquote  asked R. Daneel.\par
Baley squirmed and thought: Damned robot! If they were briefing him on everything under steel, why didn\rquote t they teach him manners? I\rquote ll be responsible if he ever says anything like this to anyone else. He said, \ldblquote I\rquote ll shower. It gets crowded evenings. I\rquote ll lose time then. If I get it done now we\rquote ll have the whole evening before us.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel\rquote s face maintained its repose. \ldblquote Is it part of the social custom that I wait outside?\rdblquote\par
Baley\rquote s embarrassment deepened. \ldblquote Why need you go in for--for no purpose.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh, I understand you. Yes, of course. Nevertheless, Elijah, my hands grow dirty, too, and I will wash them.\rdblquote\par
He indicated his palms, holding them out before him. They were pink and plump, with the proper creases. They bore every mark of excellent and meticulous workmanship and were as clean as need be. Baley said, \ldblquote We have a washbasin in the apartment, you know.\rdblquote  He said it casually. Snobbery would be lost on a robot.\par
\ldblquote Thank you for your kindness. On the whole, however, I think it would be preferable to make use of this place. If I am to live with you men of Earth, it is best that I adopt as many of your customs and attitudes as I can.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Come on in, then.\rdblquote\par
The bright cheerfulness of the interior was a sharp contrast to the busy utilitarianism of most of the rest of the City, but this time the effect was lost on Baley\rquote s consciousness.\par
He whispered to Daneel, \ldblquote I may take up to half an hour or so. Wait for me.\rdblquote  He started away, then returned to add, \ldblquote And listen, don\rquote t talk to anybody and don\rquote t look at anybody. Not a word, not a glance! It\rquote s a custom.\rdblquote\par
He looked hurriedly about to make certain that his own small conversation had not been noted, was not being met by shocked glances. Nobody, fortunately, was in the antecorridor, and after all it was only the antecorridor.\par
He hurried down it, feeling vaguely dirty, past the common chambers to the private stalls. It had been five years now since he had been awarded one--large enough to contain a shower, a small laundry, and other necessities. It even had a small projector that could be keyed in for the news films.\par
\ldblquote A home away from home,\rdblquote  he had joked when it was first made available to him. But now, he often wondered how he would bear the adjustment back to the more Spartan existence of the common chambers if his stall privileges were ever canceled.\par
He pressed the button that activated the laundry and the smooth face of the meter lighted.\par
R. Daneel was waiting patiently when Baley returned with a scrubbed body, clean underwear, a freshened shirt, and, generally, a feeling of greater comfort.\par
\ldblquote No trouble?\rdblquote  Baley asked, when they were well outside the door and able to talk.\par
\ldblquote None at all, Elijah,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel.\par
Jessie was at the door, smiling nervously. Baley kissed her.\par
\ldblquote Jessie,\rdblquote  he mumbled, \ldblquote this is my new partner, Daneel Olivaw.\rdblquote\par
Jessie held out a hand, which R. Daneel took and released. She turned to her husband, then looked timidly at R. Daneel.\par
She said, \ldblquote Won\rquote t you sit down, Mr. Olivaw? I must talk to my husband on family matters. It\rquote ll take just a minute. I hope you won\rquote t mind.\rdblquote\par
Her hand was on Baley\rquote s sleeve. He followed her into the next room.\par
She said, in a hurried whisper, \ldblquote You aren\rquote t hurt, are you? I\rquote ve been so worried ever since the broadcast.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What broadcast?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It came through nearly an hour ago. About the riot at the shoe counter. They said two plain-clothes men stopped it. I knew you were coming home with a partner and this was right in our subsection and right when you were coming home and I thought they were making it better than it was and you were--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Please, Jessie. You see I\rquote m perfectly all right.\rdblquote\par
Jessie caught hold of herself with an effort. She said, shakily, \ldblquote Your partner isn\rquote t from your division, is he?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  replied Baley miserably. \ldblquote He\rquote s--a complete stranger.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How do I treat him?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Like anybody else. He\rquote s just my partner, that\rquote s all.\rdblquote\par
He said it so unconvincingly, that Jessie\rquote s quick eyes narrowed. \ldblquote What\rquote s wrong?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Nothing. Come, let\rquote s go back into the living room. It\rquote ll begin to look queer.\rdblquote\par
Lije Baley felt a little uncertain about the apartment now. Until this very moment, he had felt no qualms. In fact, he had always been proud of it. It had three large rooms; the living room, for instance, was an ample fifteen feet by eighteen. There was a closet in each room. One of the main ventilation ducts passed directly by. It meant a little rumbling noise on rare occasions, but, on the other hand, assured first-rate temperature control and well-conditioned air. Nor was it too far from either Personal, which was a prime convenience.\par
But with the creature from worlds beyond space sitting in the midst of it, Baley was suddenly uncertain. The apartment seemed mean and cramped.\par
Jessie said, with a gaiety that was slightly synthetic, \ldblquote Have you and Mr. Olivaw eaten, Lije?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote As a matter of fact,\rdblquote  said Baley, quickly, \ldblquote Daneel will not be eating with us. I\rquote ll eat, though.\rdblquote\par
Jessie accepted the situation without trouble. With food supplies so narrowly controlled and rationing tighter than ever, it was good form to refuse another\rquote s hospitality.\par
She said, \ldblquote I hope you won\rquote t mind our eating, Mr. Olivaw. Lije, Bentley, and I generally eat at the Community kitchen. It\rquote s much more convenient and there\rquote s more variety, you see, and just between you and me, bigger helpings, too. But then, Lije and I do have permission to eat in our apartment three times a week if we want to--Lije is quite successful at the Bureau and we have very nice status--and I thought that just for this occasion, if you wanted to join us, we would have a little private feast of our own, though I do think that people who overdo their privacy privileges are just a bit anti-social, you know.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel listened politely.\par
Baley said, with an undercover \ldblquote shushing\rdblquote  wiggle of his fingers, \ldblquote Jessie, I\rquote m hungry.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote Would I be breaking a custom, Mrs. Baley, if I addressed you by your given name?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why, no, of course not.\rdblquote  Jessie folded a table out of the wall and plugged the plate warmer into the central depression on the table top. \ldblquote You just go right ahead and call me Jessie all you feel like--uh--Daneel.\rdblquote  She giggled.\par
Baley felt savage. The situation was getting rapidly more uncomfortable. Jessie thought R. Daneel a man. The thing would be someone to boast of and talk about in Women\rquote s Personal. He was good-looking in a wooden way, too, and Jessie was pleased with his deference. Anyone could see that.\par
Baley wondered about R. Daneel\rquote s impression of Jessie. She hadn\rquote t changed much in eighteen years, or at least not to Lije Baley. She was heavier, of course, and her figure had lost much of its youthful vigor. There were lines at the angles of the mouth and a trace of heaviness about her cheeks. Her hair was more conservatively styled and a dimmer brown than it had once been.\par
But that\rquote s all beside the point, thought Baley, somberly. On the Outer Worlds the women were tall and as slim and regal as the men. Or, at least, the book-films had them so and that must be the kind of women R. Daneel was used to.\par
But R. Daneel seemed quite unperturbed by Jessie\rquote s conversation, her appearance, or her appropriation of his name. He said, \ldblquote Are you sure that is proper? The name, Jessie, seems to be a diminutive. Perhaps its use is restricted to members of your immediate circle and I would be more proper if I used your full given name.\rdblquote\par
Jessie, who was breaking open the insulating wrapper surrounding the dinner ration, bent her head over the task in sudden concentration.\par
\ldblquote Just Jessie,\rdblquote  she said, tightly. \ldblquote Everyone calls me that. There\rquote s nothing else.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Very well, Jessie.\rdblquote\par
The door opened and a youngster entered cautiously. His eyes found R. Daneel almost at once.\par
\ldblquote Dad?\rdblquote  said the boy, uncertainly.\par
\ldblquote My son, Bentley,\rdblquote  said Baley, in a low voice. \ldblquote This is Mr. Olivaw, Ben.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He\rquote s your partner, huh, Dad? How d\rquote ya do, Mr. Olivaw.\rdblquote  Ben\rquote s eyes grew large and luminous. \ldblquote Say, Dad, what happened down in the shoe place? The newscast said--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Don\rquote t ask any questions now, Ben,\rdblquote  interposed Baley sharply.\par
Bentley\rquote s face fell and he looked toward his mother, who motioned him to a seat.\par
\ldblquote Did you do what I told you, Bentley?\rdblquote  she asked, when he sat down. Her hands moved caressingly over his hair. It was as dark as his father\rquote s and he was going to have his father\rquote s height, but all the rest of him was hers. He had Jessie\rquote s oval face, her hazel eyes, her light-hearted way of looking at life.\par
\ldblquote Sure, Mom,\rdblquote  said Bentley, hitching himself forward a bit to look into the double dish from which savory vapors were already rising.\par
\ldblquote What we got to eat? Not zymoveal again, Mom? Huh, Mom?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote There\rquote s nothing wrong with zymoveal,\rdblquote  said Jessie, her lips pressing together. \ldblquote Now, you just eat what\rquote s put before you and let\rquote s not have any comments.\rdblquote\par
It was quite obvious they were having zymoveal.\par
Baley took his own seat. He himself would have preferred something other than zymoveal, with its sharp flavor and definite aftertaste, but Jessie had explained her problem before this.\par
\ldblquote Well, I just can\rquote t, Lije,\rdblquote  she had said. \ldblquote I live right here on these levels all day and I can\rquote t make enemies or life wouldn\rquote t be bearable. They know I used to be assistant dietitian and if I just walked off with steak or chicken every other week when there\rquote s hardly anyone else on the floor that has private eating privileges even on Sunday, they\rquote d say it was pull or friends in the prep room. It would be talk, talk, talk, and I wouldn\rquote t be able to put my nose out the door or visit Personal in peace. As it is, zymoveal and protoveg are very good. They\rquote re well-balanced nourishment with no waste and, as a matter of fact, they\rquote re full of vitamins and minerals and everything anyone needs and we can have all the chicken we want when we eat in Community on the chicken Tuesdays.\rdblquote\par
Baley gave in easily. It was as Jessie said; the first problem of living is to minimize friction with the crowds that surround you on all sides. Bentley was a little harder to convince.\par
On this occasion, he said, \ldblquote Gee, Mom, why can\rquote t I use Dad\rquote s ticket and eat in Community myself? I\rquote d just as soon.\rdblquote\par
Jessie shook her head in annoyance and said, \ldblquote I\rquote m surprised at you, Bentley. What would people say if they saw you eating by yourself as though your own family weren\rquote t good enough for you or had thrown you out of the apartment?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, gosh, it\rquote s none of people\rquote s business.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, with a nervous edge in his voice, \ldblquote Do as your mother tells you, Bentley.\rdblquote\par
Bentley shrugged, unhappily.\par
R. Daneel said, suddenly; from the other side of the room, \ldblquote Have I the family\rquote s permission to view these book-films during your meal?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh, sure,\rdblquote  said Bentley, slipping away from the table, a look of instant interest upon his face. \ldblquote They\rquote re mine. I got them from the library on special school permit. I\rquote ll get you my viewer. It\rquote s a pretty good one. Dad gave it to me for my last birthday.\rdblquote\par
He brought it to R. Daneel and said, \ldblquote Are you interested in robots, Mr. Olivaw?\rdblquote\par
Baley dropped his spoon and bent to pick it up.\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote Yes, Bentley. I am quite interested.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then you\rquote ll like these. They\rquote re all about robots. I\rquote ve got to write an essay on them for school, so I\rquote m doing research. It\rquote s quite a complicated subject,\rdblquote  he said importantly. \ldblquote I\rquote m against them myself.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Sit down, Bentley,\rdblquote  said Baley, desperately, \ldblquote and don\rquote t bother Mr. Olivaw.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He\rquote s not bothering me, Elijah. I\rquote d like to talk to you about the problem, Bentley, another time. Your father and I will be very busy tonight.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Thanks, Mr. Olivaw.\rdblquote  Bentley took his seat and, with a look of distaste in his mother\rquote s direction, broke off a portion of the crumbly pink zymoveal with his fork.\par
Baley thought: Busy tonight?\par
Then, with a resounding shock, he remembered his job. He thought of a Spacer lying dead in Spacetown and realized that for hours he had been so involved with his own dilemma that he had forgotten the cold fact of murder.\par
\pard\keepn\pagebb\s1\sb240\sa60\qc\kerning32\b\f2\fs32 Chapter 5\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa240\qc\kerning0\i\fs28 ANALYSIS OF A MURDER\par
\pard\fi216\qj\b0\i0\f0\fs24 Jessie said good-by to them. She was wearing a formal hat and a little jacket of keratofiber as she said, \ldblquote I hope you\rquote ll excuse me, Mr. Olivaw. I know you have a great deal to discuss with Lije.\rdblquote\par
She pushed her son ahead of her as she opened the door.\par
\ldblquote When will you be back, Jessie?\rdblquote  asked Baley.\par
She paused. \ldblquote When do you want me to be back?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well ... No use staying out all night. Why don\rquote t you come back your usual time? Midnight or so.\rdblquote  He looked doubtfully at R. Daneel.\par
R. Daneel nodded. \ldblquote I regret having to drive you from your home.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Don\rquote t worry about that, Mr. Olivaw. You\rquote re not driving me out at all. This is my usual evening out with the girls anyway. Come on, Ben.\rdblquote\par
The youngster was rebellious. \ldblquote Aw, why the dickens do I have to go, anyway. I\rquote m not going to bother them. Nuts!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Now, do as I say.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, why can\rquote t I go to the etherics along with you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Because I\rquote m going with some friends and you\rquote ve got other things--\rdblquote\par
The door closed behind them.\par
And now the moment had come. Baley had put it off in his mind. lie had thought: First let\rquote s meet the robot and see what he\rquote s like. Then it was: Let\rquote s get him home. And then: Let\rquote s eat.\par
But now it was all over and there was no room for further delay. It was down at last to the question of murder, of interstellar complications, of possible raises in ratings, of possible disgrace. And he had no way of even beginning except to turn to the robot for help.\par
His fingernails moved aimlessly on the table, which had not been returned to its wall recess.\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote How secure are we against being overheard?\rdblquote\par
Baley looked up, surprised. \ldblquote No one would listen to what\rquote s proceeding in another man\rquote s apartment.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It is not your custom to eavesdrop?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It just isn\rquote t done, Daneel. You might as well suppose they\rquote d--I don\rquote t know--that they\rquote d look in your plate while you\rquote re eating.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Or that they would commit murder?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It is against your customs to kill, is it not, Elijah?\rdblquote\par
Baley felt anger rising. \ldblquote See here, if we\rquote re going to be partners, don\rquote t try to imitate Spacer arrogance. There\rquote s no room for it in you, R. Daneel.\rdblquote  He could not resist emphasizing the \ldblquote R.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I am sorry if I have hurt your feelings, Elijah. My intention was only to indicate that, since human beings are occasionally capable of murder in defiance of custom, they may be able to violate custom for the smaller impropriety of eavesdropping.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The apartment is adequately insulated,\rdblquote  said Baley, still frowning. \ldblquote You haven\rquote t heard anything from the apartments on any side of us, have you? Well, they won\rquote t hear us, either. Besides, why should anyone think anything of importance is going on here?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Let us not underestimate the enemy.\rdblquote\par
Baley shrugged. \ldblquote Let\rquote s get started. My information is sketchy, so I can spread out my hand without much trouble. I know that a man named Roj Nemennuh Sarton, a citizen of the planet Aurora, and a resident of Spacetown, has been murdered by person or persons unknown. I understand that it is the opinion of the Spacers that this is not an isolated event. Am I right?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You are quite right, Elijah.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote They tie it up with recent attempts to sabotage the Spacer-sponsored project of converting us to an integrated human/robot society on the model of the Outer Worlds, and assume the murder was the product of a well-organized terrorist group.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right. Then to begin with, is this Spacer assumption necessarily true? Why can\rquote t the murder have been the work of an isolated fanatic? There is strong anti-robot sentiment on Earth, but there are no organized parties advocating violence of this sort.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not openly, perhaps. No.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Even a secret organization dedicated to the destruction of robots and robot factories would have the common sense to realize that the worst thing they could do would be to murder a Spacer. It seems much more likely to have been the work of an unbalanced mind.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel listened carefully, then said, \ldblquote I think the weight of probability is against the \lquote fanatic\rquote  theory. The person killed was too well chosen and the time of the murder too appropriate for anything but deliberate planning on the part of an organized group.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, then, you\rquote ve got more information than I have. Spill it!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Your phraseology is obscure, but I think I understand. I will have to explain some of the background to you. As seen from Spacetown, Elijah, relations with Earth are unsatisfactory.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Tough,\rdblquote  muttered Baley.\par
\ldblquote I have been told that when Spacetown was first established, it was taken for granted by most of our people that Earth would be willing to adopt the integrated society that has worked so well on the Outer Worlds. Even after the first riots, we thought that it was only a matter of your people getting over the first shock of novelty.\par
\ldblquote That has not proven to be the case. Even with the co-operation of the Terrestrial government and of most of the various City governments, resistance has been continuous and progress has been very slow. Naturally, this has been a matter of great concern to our people.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Out of altruism, I suppose,\rdblquote  said Baley.\par
\ldblquote Not entirely,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel, \ldblquote although it is good of you to attribute worthy motives to them. It is our common belief that a healthy and modernized Earth would be of great benefit to the whole Galaxy. At least, it is the common belief among our people at Spacetown. I must admit that there are strong elements opposed to them on the Outer Worlds.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What? Disagreement among the Spacers?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Certainly. There are some who think that a modernized Earth will be a dangerous and an imperialistic Earth. This is particularly true among the populations of those older worlds which are closer to Earth and have greater reason to remember the first few centuries of interstellar travel when their worlds were controlled, politically and economically, by Earth.\rdblquote\par
Baley sighed. \ldblquote Ancient history. Are they really worried? Are they still kicking at us for things that happened a thousand years ago?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Humans,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel, \ldblquote have their own peculiar makeup. They are not as reasonable, in many ways, as we robots, since their circuits are not as preplanned. I am told that this, too, has its advantages.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Perhaps it may,\rdblquote  said Baley, dryly.\par
\ldblquote You are in a better position to know,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel. \ldblquote In any case, continuing failure on Earth has strengthened the Nationalist parties on the Outer Worlds. They say that it is obvious that Earthmen are different from Spacers and cannot be fitted into the same traditions. They say that if we imposed robots on Earth by superior force, we would be loosing destruction on the Galaxy. One thing they never forget, you see, is that Earth\rquote s population is eight billions, while the total population of the fifty Outer Worlds combined is scarcely more than five and a half billions. Our people here, particularly Dr. Sarton--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He was a doctor?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote A Doctor of Sociology, specializing in robotics, and a very brilliant man.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I see. Go on.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote As I said, Dr. Sarton and the others realized that Spacetown and all it meant would not exist much longer if such sentiments on the Outer Worlds were allowed to grow by feeding on our continued failure. Dr. Sarton felt that the time had come to make a supreme effort to understand the psychology of the Earthman. It is easy to say that the Earth people are innately conservative and to speak tritely of \lquote the unchanging Earth\rquote  and \lquote the inscrutable Terrestrial mind,\rquote  but that is only evading the problem.\par
\ldblquote Dr. Sarton said it was ignorance speaking and that we could not dismiss the Earthman with a proverb or a bromide. He said the Spacers who were trying to remake Earth must abandon the isolation of Spacetown and mingle with Earthmen. They must live as they, think as they, be as they.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote The Spacers? Impossible.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You are quite right,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel. \ldblquote Despite his views, Dr. Sarton himself could not have brought himself to enter any of the Cities, and he knew it. He would have been unable to bear the hugeness and the crowds. Even if he had been forced inside at the point of a blaster, the externals would have weighed him down so that he could never have penetrated the inner truths for which he sought.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What about the way they\rquote re always worrying about disease?\rdblquote  demanded Baley. \ldblquote Don\rquote t forget that. I don\rquote t think there\rquote s one of them that would risk entering a City on that account alone.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote There is that, too. Disease in the Earthly sense is unknown on the Outer Worlds and the fear of the unknown is always morbid. Dr. Sarton appreciated all of this, but, nevertheless, he insisted on the necessity of growing to know the Earthman and his way of life intimately.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He seems to have worked himself into a corner.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not quite. The objections to entering the City hold for human Spacers. Robot Spacers are another thing entirely.\rdblquote\par
Baley thought: I keep forgetting, damn it. Aloud, he said, \ldblquote Oh?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel. \ldblquote We are more flexible, naturally. At least in this respect. We can be designed for adaptation to an Earthly life. By being built into a particularly close similarity to the human externals, we could be accepted by Earthmen and allowed a closer view of their life.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And you yourself--\rdblquote  began Baley in sudden enlightenment.\par
\ldblquote Am just such a robot. For a year, Dr. Sarton had been working upon the design and construction of such robots. I was the first of his robots and so far the only one. Unfortunately, my education is not yet complete. I have been hurried into my role prematurely as a result of the murder.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then not all Spacer robots are like you? I mean, some look more like robots and less like humans. Right?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why, naturally. The outward appearance is dependent on a robot\rquote s function. My own function requires a very manlike appearance, and I have it. Others are different, although all are humanoid. Certainly they are more humanoid than the distressingly primitive models I saw at the shoe counter. Are all your robots like that?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote More or less,\rdblquote  said Baley. \ldblquote You don\rquote t approve?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course not. It is difficult to accept a gross parody of the human form as an intellectual equal. Can your factories do no better?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m sure they can, Daneel. I think we just prefer to know when we\rquote re dealing with a robot and when we\rquote re not.\rdblquote  He stared directly into the robot\rquote s eyes as he said that. They were bright and moist, as a human\rquote s would be, but it seemed to Baley that their gaze was steady and did not flicker slightly from point to point as a man\rquote s would.\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote I am hopeful that in time I will grow to understand that point of view.\rdblquote\par
For a moment, Baley thought there was sarcasm in the sentence, then dismissed the possibility.\par
\ldblquote In any case,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel, \ldblquote Dr. Sarton saw clearly the fact that it was a case for C/Fe.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote See fee? What\rquote s that?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Just the chemical symbols for the elements carbon and iron, Elijah. Carbon is the basis of human life and iron of robot life. It becomes easy to speak of C/Fe when you wish to express a culture that combines the best of the two on an equal but parallel basis.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote See fee. Do you write it with a hyphen? Or how?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, Elijah. A diagonal line between the two is the accepted way. It symbolizes neither one nor the other, but a mixture of the two, without priority.\rdblquote\par
Against his will, Baley found himself interested. Formal education on Earth included virtually no information on Outer World history or sociology after the Great Rebellion that made them independent of the mother planet. The popular book-film romances, to be sure, had their stock Outer World characters: the visiting tycoon, choleric and eccentric; the beautiful heiress, invariably smitten by the Earthman\rquote s charms and drowning disdain in love; the arrogant Spacer rival, wicked and forever beaten. These were worthless pictures, since they denied even the most elementary and well-known truths: that Spacers never entered Cities and Spacer women virtually never visited Earth.\par
For the first time in his life, Baley was stirred by an odd curiosity. What was Spacer life really like?\par
He brought his mind back to the issue at hand with something of an effort. He said, \ldblquote I think I get what you\rquote re driving at. Your Dr. Sarton was attacking the problem of Earth\rquote s conversion to C/Fe from a new and promising angle. Our conservative groups or Medievalists, as they call themselves, were perturbed. They were afraid he might succeed. So they killed him. That\rquote s the motivation that makes it an organized plot and not an isolated outrage. Right?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I would put it about like that, Elijah. Yes.\rdblquote\par
Baley whistled thoughtfully under his breath. His long fingers tapped lightly against the table. Then he shook his head. \ldblquote It won\rquote t wash. It won\rquote t wash at all.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Pardon me. I do not understand you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m trying to get the picture. An Earthman walks into Spacetown, walks up to Dr. Sarton, blasts him, and walks out. I just don\rquote t see it. Surely the entrance to Spacetown is guarded.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel nodded. \ldblquote I think it is safe to say that no Earthman can possibly have passed through the entrance illegally.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then where does that leave you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It would leave us in a confusing position, Elijah, if the entrance were the only way of reaching Spacetown from New York City.\rdblquote\par
Baley watched his partner thoughtfully. \ldblquote I don\rquote t get you. It\rquote s the only connection between the two.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Directly between the two, yes.\rdblquote  R. Daneel waited a moment, then said, \ldblquote You do not follow me. Is that not so?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That is so. I don\rquote t get you at all.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, if it will not offend you, I will try to explain myself. May I have a piece of paper and a writer? Thank you. Look here, partner Elijah. I will draw a big circle and label it \lquote New York City.\rquote  Now, tangent to it, I will draw a small circle and label it \lquote Spacetown.\rquote  Here, where they touch, I draw an arrowhead and label it \lquote Barrier.\rquote  Now do you see no other connection?\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Of course not. There is no other connection.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote In a way,\rdblquote  said the robot, \ldblquote I am glad to hear you say this. It is in accordance with what I have been taught about Terrestrial ways of thinking. The barrier is the only direct connection. But both the City and Spacetown are open to the countryside in all directions. It is possible for a Terrestrial to leave the City at any of numerous exits and strike out cross country to Spacetown, where no barrier will stop him.\rdblquote\par
The tip of Baley\rquote s tongue touched his upper lip and for a moment stayed there. Then he said, \ldblquote Cross country?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Cross country! Alone?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why not?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Walking?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Undoubtedly walking. Walking would offer the least chance of detection. The murder took place early in the working day and the trip was undoubtedly negotiated in the hours before dawn.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Impossible! There isn\rquote t a man in the City who would do it. Leave the City? Alone?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Ordinarily, it would seem unlikely. Yes. We Spacers know that. It is why we guard only the entrance. Even in the Great Riot, your people attacked only at the barrier that then protected the entrance. Not one left the City.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, then?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But now we are dealing with an unusual situation. It is not the blind attack of a mob following the line of least resistance, but the organized attempt of a small group to strike, deliberately, at the unguarded point. It explains why, as you say, a Terrestrial could enter Spacetown, walk up to his victim, kill him, and walk away. The man attacked through a complete blind spot on our part.\rdblquote\par
Baley shook his head. \ldblquote It\rquote s too unlikely. Have your people done anything to check that theory?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, we have. Your Commissioner of Police was present almost at the time of the murder--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I know. He told me so.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That, Elijah, is another example of the timeliness of the murder. Your Commissioner has co-operated with Dr. Sarton in the past and he was the Earthman with whom Dr. Sarton planned to make initial arrangements concerning the infiltration of your city by R\rquote s such as myself. The appointment for that morning was to concern that. The murder, of course, stopped those plans, at least temporarily, and the fact that it happened when your own Commissioner of Police was actually within Spacetown made the entire situation more difficult and embarrassing for Earth, and for our own people, too.\par
\ldblquote But that is not what I started to say. Your Commissioner was present. We said to him, \lquote The man must have come cross country.\rquote  Like you, he said, \lquote Impossible,\rquote  or perhaps, \lquote Unthinkable.\rquote  He was quite disturbed, of course, and perhaps that may have made it difficult for him to see the essential point. Nevertheless, we forced him to begin checking that possibility almost at once.\rdblquote\par
Baley thought of the Commissioner\rquote s broken glasses and, even in the middle of somber thoughts, a corner of his mouth twitched. Poor Julius! Yes, he would be disturbed. Of course, there would be no way for Enderby to have explained the situation to the lofty Spacers, who looked upon physical disability as a peculiarly disgusting attribute of the non-genetically selected Earthmen. At least, he couldn\rquote t without losing face, and face was valuable to Police Commissioner Julius Enderby. Well, Earthmen had to stick together in some respects. The robot would never find out about Enderby\rquote s nearsightedness from Baley.\par
R. Daneel continued, \ldblquote One by one, the various exit points from the City were investigated. Do you know how many there are, Elijah?\rdblquote\par
Baley shook his head, then hazarded, \ldblquote Twenty?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Five hundred and two.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Originally, there were many more. Five hundred and two are all that remain functional. Your City represents a slow growth, Elijah. It was once open to the sky and people crossed from City to country freely.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course. I know that.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, when it was first enclosed, there were many exits left. Five hundred and two still remain. The rest are built over or blocked up. We are not counting, of course, the entrance points for air freight.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, what of the exit points?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It was hopeless. They are unguarded. We could find no official who was in charge or who considered them under his jurisdiction. It seemed as though no one even knew they existed. A man could have walked out of any of them at any time and returned at will. He would never have been detected.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Anything else? The weapon was gone, I suppose.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh, yes.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Any clues of any sort?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote None. We have investigated the grounds surrounding Spacetown thoroughly. The robots on the truck farms were quite useless as possible witnesses. They are little more than automatic farm machinery, scarcely humanoid. And there were no humans.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Uh-huh. What next?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Having failed, so far, at one end, Spacetown, we will work at the other, New York City. It will be our duty to track down all possible subversive groups, to sift all dissident organizations--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How much time do you intend to spend?\rdblquote  interrupted Baley.\par
\ldblquote As little as possible, as much as necessary.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  said Baley, thoughtfully, \ldblquote I wish you had another partner in this mess.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I do not,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel. \ldblquote The Commissioner spoke very highly of your loyalty and ability.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It was nice of him,\rdblquote  said Baley sardonically. He thought: Poor Julius. I\rquote m on his conscience and he tries hard.\par
\ldblquote We didn\rquote t rely entirely on him,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel. \ldblquote We checked your records. You have expressed yourself openly against the use of robots in your department.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh? Do you object?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not at all. Your opinions are, obviously, your own. But it made it necessary for us to check your psychological profile very closely. We know that, although you dislike R\rquote s intensely, you will work with one if you conceive it to be your duty. You have an extraordinarily high loyalty aptitude and a respect for legitimate authority. It is what we need. Commissioner Enderby judged you well.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You have no personal resentment toward my anti-robot sentiments?\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote If they do not prevent you from working with me and helping me do what is required of me, how can they matter?\rdblquote\par
Baley felt stopped. He said, belligerently, \ldblquote Well, then, if I pass the test, how about you? What makes you a detective?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I do not understand you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You were designed as an information-gathering machine. A manimitation to record the facts of human life for the Spacers.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That is a good beginning for an investigator, is it not? To be an information-gathering machine?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote A beginning, maybe. But it\rquote s not all there is, by a long shot.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote To be sure, there has been a final adjustment of my circuits.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote d be curious to hear the details of that, Daneel.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That is easy enough. A particularly strong drive has been inserted into my motivation banks; a desire for justice.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Justice!\rdblquote  cried Baley. The irony faded from his face and was replaced by a look of the most earnest distrust.\par
But R. Daneel turned swiftly in his chair and stared at the door. \ldblquote Someone is out there.\rdblquote\par
Someone was. The door opened and Jessie, pale and thin-lipped, walked in.\par
Baley was startled. \ldblquote Why, Jessie! Is anything wrong?\rdblquote\par
She stood there, eyes not meeting his. \ldblquote I\rquote m sorry. I had to ... Her voice trailed off.\par
\ldblquote Where\rquote s Bentley?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He\rquote s to stay the night in the Youth Hall.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Why? I didn\rquote t tell you to do that.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You said your partner would stay the night. I felt he would need Bentley\rquote s room.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote There was no necessity, Jessie.\rdblquote\par
Jessie lifted her eyes to R. Daneel\rquote s face, staring at it earnestly.\par
Baley looked at his fingertips, sick at what might follow, somehow unable to interpose. The momentary silence pressed thickly on his eardrums and then, far away, as though through folds of plastex, he heard his wife say, \ldblquote I think you are a robot, Daneel.\rdblquote\par
And R. Daneel replied, in a voice as calm as ever, \ldblquote I am.\rdblquote\par
\pard\keepn\pagebb\s1\sb240\sa60\qc\kerning32\b\f2\fs32 Chapter 6\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa240\qc\kerning0\i\fs28 WHISPERS IN A BEDROOM\par
\pard\fi216\qj\b0\i0\f0\fs24 On the uppermost levels of some of the wealthiest subsections of the City are the natural Solariums, where a partition of quartz with a movable metal shield excludes the air but lets in the sunlight. There the wives and daughters of the City\rquote s highest administrators and executives may tan themselves. There a unique thing happens every evening.\par
Night falls.\par
In the rest of the City (including the UV-Solariums, where the millions, in strict sequence of allotted time, may occasionally expose themselves to the artificial wavelengths of arc lights) there are only the arbitrary cycles of hours.\par
The business of the City might easily continue in three eight-hour or four six-hour shifts, by \ldblquote day\rdblquote  and \ldblquote night\rdblquote  alike. Light and work could easily proceed endlessly. There are always civic reformers who periodically suggest such a thing in the interests of economy and efficiency.\par
The notion is never accepted.\par
Much of the earlier habits of Earthly society have been given up in the interests of that same economy and efficiency: space, privacy, even much of free will. They are the products of civilization, however, and not more than ten thousand years old.\par
The adjustment of sleep to night, however, is as old as man: a million years. The habit is not easy to give up. Although the evening is unseen, apartment lights dim as the hours of darkness pass and the City\rquote s pulse sinks. Though no one can tell noon from midnight by any cosmic phenomenon along the enclosed avenues of the City, mankind follows the mute partitionings of the hour hand.\par
The expressways empty, the noise of life sinks, the moving mob among the colossal alleys melts away; New York City lies in Earth\rquote s unnoticed shadow, and its population sleeps.\par
Elijah Baley did not sleep. He lay in bed and there was no light in his apartment, but that was as far as it went.\par
Jessie lay next to him, motionless in the darkness. He had not felt nor heard her move.\par
On the other side of the wall sat, stood, lay (Baley wondered which) R. Daneel Olivaw.\par
Baley whispered, \ldblquote Jessie!\rdblquote  Then again, \ldblquote Jessie!\rdblquote\par
The dark figure beside him stirred slightly under the sheet. \ldblquote What do you want?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Jessie, don\rquote t make it worse for me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You might have told me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How could I? I was planning to, when I could think of a way. Jehoshaphat, Jessie--\rdblquote\par
Baley\rquote s voice returned to its whisper. \ldblquote How did you find out? Won\rquote t you tell me?\rdblquote\par
Jessie turned toward him. He could sense her eyes looking through the darkness at him.\par
\ldblquote Lije.\rdblquote  Her voice was scarcely more than a stirring of air. \ldblquote Can he hear us? That thing?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not if we whisper.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How do you know? Maybe he has special ears to pick up tiny sounds. Spacer robots can do all sorts of things.\rdblquote\par
Baley knew that. The pro-robot propaganda was forever stressing the miraculous feats of the Spacer robots, their endurance, their extra senses, their service to humanity in a hundred novel ways. Personally, he thought that approach defeated itself. Earthmen hated the robots all the more for their superiority.\par
He whispered, \ldblquote Not Daneel. They made him human-type on purpose. They wanted him to be accepted as a human being, so he must have only human senses.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How do you know?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If he had extra senses, there would be too much danger of his giving himself away as non-human by accident. He would do too much, know too much.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, maybe.\rdblquote\par
Silence fell again.\par
A minute passed and Baley tried a second time. \ldblquote Jessie, if you\rquote ll just let things be until--until ... Look, dear, it\rquote s unfair of you to be angry.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Angry? Oh, Lije, you fool. I\rquote m not angry. I\rquote m scared; I\rquote m scared clean to death.\rdblquote\par
She made a gulping sound and clutched at the neck of his pajamas. For a while, they clung together, and Baley\rquote s growing sense of injury evaporated into a troubled concern.\par
\ldblquote Why, Jessie? There\rquote s nothing to be worried about. He\rquote s harmless. I swear he is.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Can\rquote t you get rid of him, Lije?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You know I can\rquote t. It\rquote s Department business. How can I?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What kind of business, Lije? Tell me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Now, Jessie, I\rquote m surprised at you.\rdblquote  He groped for her cheek in the darkness and patted it. It was wet. Using his pajama sleeve, he carefully wiped her eyes.\par
\ldblquote Now, look,\rdblquote  he said tenderly, \ldblquote you\rquote re being a baby.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Tell them at the Department to have someone else do it, whatever it is. Please, Lije.\rdblquote\par
Baley\rquote s voice hardened a bit. \ldblquote Jessie, you\rquote ve been a policeman\rquote s wife long enough to know an assignment is an assignment.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, why did it have to be you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Julius Enderby--\rdblquote\par
She stiffened in his arms. \ldblquote I might have known. Why can\rquote t you tell Julius Enderby to have someone else do the dirty work just once. You stand for too much, Lije, and this is just--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right, all right,\rdblquote  he said, soothingly.\par
She subsided, quivering.\par
Baley thought: She\rquote ll never understand.\par
Julius Enderby had been a fighting word with them since their engagement. Enderby had been two classes ahead of Baley at the City School of Administrative Studies. They had been friends. When Baley had taken his battery of aptitude tests and neuroanalysis and found himself in line for the police force, he found Enderby there ahead of him. Enderby had already moved into the plain-clothes division.\par
Baley followed Enderby, but at a continually greater distance. It was no one\rquote s fault, precisely. Baley was capable enough, efficient enough, but he lacked something that Enderby had. Enderby fit the administrative machine perfectly. He was one of those persons who was born for a hierarchy, who was just naturally comfortable in a bureaucracy. The Commissioner wasn\rquote t a great brain, and Baley knew it. He had his childish peculiarities, his intermittent rash of ostentatious Medievalism, for instance. But he was smooth with others; he offended no one; he took orders gracefully; he gave them with the proper mixture of gentleness and firmness. He even got along with the Spacers. He was perhaps over-obsequious to them (Baley himself could never have dealt with them for half a day without getting into a state of bristle; he was sure of that, even though he had never really spoken to a Spacer), but they trusted him, and that made him extremely useful to the City. So, in a Civil Service where smooth and sociable performance was more useful than an individualistic competence, Enderby went up the scale quickly, and was at the Commissioner level when Baley himself was nothing more than a C-5. Baley did not resent the contrast, though he was human enough to regret it. Enderby did not forget their earlier friendship and, in his queer way, tried to make up for his success by doing what he could for Baley.\par
The assignment of partnership with R. Daneel was an example of it.\par
It was tough and unpleasant, but there was no question that it carried within it the germs of tremendous advance. The Commissioner might have given the chance to someone else. His own talk, that morning, of needing a favor masked but did not hide that fact.\par
Jessie never saw things that way. On similar occasions in the past, she had said, \ldblquote It\rquote s your silly loyalty index. I\rquote m so tired of hearing everyone praise you for being so full of a sense of duty. Think of yourself once in a while. I notice the ones on top don\rquote t bring up the topic of their own loyalty index.\rdblquote\par
Baley lay in bed in a state of stiff wakefulness, letting Jessie calm down. He had to think. He had to be certain of his suspicions. Little things chased one another and fitted together in his mind. Slowly, they were building into a pattern.\par
He felt the mattress give as Jessie stirred.\par
\ldblquote Lije?\rdblquote  Her lips were at his ear.\par
\ldblquote What?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why don\rquote t you resign?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Don\rquote t be crazy.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why not?\rdblquote  She was suddenly almost eager. \ldblquote You can get rid of that horrible robot that way. Just walk in and tell Enderby you\rquote re through.\rdblquote\par
Baley said coldly, \ldblquote I can\rquote t resign in the middle of an important case. I can\rquote t throw the whole thing down the disposal tube just any time I feel like it. A trick like that means declassification for cause.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Even so. You can work your way up again. You can do it, Lije. There are a dozen places where you\rquote d fit into Service.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Civil Service doesn\rquote t take men who are declassified for cause. Manual labor is the only thing I can do; the only thing you could do. Bentley would lose all inherited status. For God\rquote s sake, Jessie, you don\rquote t know what it\rquote s like.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ve read about it. I\rquote m not afraid of it,\rdblquote  she mumbled.\par
\ldblquote You\rquote re crazy. You\rquote re plain crazy.\rdblquote  Baley could feel himself trembling. There was a familiar, flashing picture of his father in his mind\rquote s eye. His father, moldering away toward death.\par
Jessie sighed heavily.\par
Baley\rquote s mind turned savagely away from her. In desperation, it returned to the pattern it was constructing.\par
He said, tightly, \ldblquote Jessie, you\rquote ve got to tell me. How did you find out Daneel was a robot? What made you decide that?\rdblquote\par
She began, \ldblquote Well ...\rdblquote  and just ran down. It was the third time she had begun to explain and failed.\par
He crushed her hand in his, willing her to speak. \ldblquote Please, Jessie. What\rquote s frightening you?\rdblquote\par
She said, \ldblquote I just guessed he was a robot, Lije.\rdblquote\par
He said, \ldblquote There wasn\rquote t anything to make you guess that, Jessie. You didn\rquote t think he was a robot before you left, now did you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No-o, but I got to thinking ...\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Come on, Jessie. What was it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well-- Look, Lije, the girls were talking in the Personal. You know how they are. Just talking about everything.\rdblquote\par
Women! thought Baley.\par
\ldblquote Anyway,\rdblquote  said Jessie. \ldblquote The rumor is all over town. It must be.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All over town?\rdblquote  Baley felt a quick and savage touch of triumph, or nearly that. Another piece in place!\par
\ldblquote It was the way they sounded. They said there was talk about a Spacer robot loose in the City. He was supposed to look just like a man and to be working with the police. They even asked me about it. They laughed and said, \lquote Does your Lije know anything about it, Jessie?\rquote  and I laughed, and said, \lquote Don\rquote t be silly!\rquote\par
\ldblquote Then we went to the etherics and I got to thinking about your new partner. Do you remember those pictures you brought home, the ones Julius Enderby took in Spacetown, to show me what Spacers looked like? Well, I got to thinking that\rquote s what your partner looked like. It just came to me that that\rquote s what he looked like and I said to myself, oh, my God, someone must\rquote ve recognized him in the shoe department and he\rquote s with Lije and I just said I had a headache and I ran--\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Now, Jessie, stop, stop. Get hold of yourself. Now why are you afraid? You\rquote re not afraid of Daneel himself. You faced up to him when you came home. You faced up to him fine. So--\rdblquote\par
He stopped speaking. He sat up in bed, eyes uselessly wide in the darkness.\par
He felt his wife move against his side. His hand leaped, found her lips and pressed against them. She heaved against his grip, her hands grasping his wrist and wrenching, but he leaned down against her the more heavily.\par
Then, suddenly, he released her. She whimpered.\par
He said, huskily, \ldblquote Sorry, Jessie. I was listening.\rdblquote\par
He was getting out of bed, pulling warm Plastofilm over the soles of his feet.\par
\ldblquote Lije, where are you going? Don\rquote t leave me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s all right. I\rquote m just going to the door.\rdblquote\par
The Plastofilm made a soft, shuffling noise as he circled the bed. He cracked the door to the living room and waited a long moment. Nothing happened. It was so quiet, he could hear the thin whistle of Jessie\rquote s breath from their bed. He could hear the dull rhythm of blood in his ears.\par
Baley\rquote s hand crept through the opening of the door, snaking out to the spot he needed no light to find. His fingers closed upon the knob that controlled the ceiling illumination. He exerted the smallest pressure he could and the ceiling gleamed dimly, so dimly that the lower half of the living room remained in semidusk.\par
He saw enough, however. The main door was closed and the living room lay lifeless and quiet.\par
He turned the knob back into the off position and moved back to bed.\par
It was all he needed. The pieces fit. The pattern was complete. Jessie pleaded with him. \ldblquote Lije, what\rquote s wrong?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Nothing\rquote s wrong, Jessie. Everything\rquote s all right. He\rquote s not here.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The robot? Do you mean he\rquote s gone? For good?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, no. He\rquote ll be back. And before he does, answer my question.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What question?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What are you afraid of?\rdblquote  Jessie said nothing.\par
Baley grew more insistent. \ldblquote You said you were scared to death.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, we went through that. You weren\rquote t afraid of him and, besides, you know quite well a robot cannot hurt a human being.\rdblquote\par
Her words came slowly. \ldblquote I thought if everyone knew he was a robot there might be a riot. We\rquote d be killed.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why kill us?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You know what riots are like.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote They don\rquote t even know where the robot is, do they?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote They might find out.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And that\rquote s what you\rquote re afraid of, a riot?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Sh!\rdblquote  He pressed Jessie down to the pillow.\par
Then he put his lips to her ear. \ldblquote He\rquote s come back. Now listen and don\rquote t say a word. Everything\rquote s fine. He\rquote ll be gone in the morning and he won\rquote t be back. There\rquote ll be no riot, nothing.\rdblquote\par
He was almost contented as he said that, almost completely contented. He felt he could sleep.\par
He thought again: No riot, nothing. And no declassification. And just before he actually fell asleep, he thought: Not even a murder investigation. Not even that. The whole thing\rquote s solved ...\par
He slept.\par
\pard\keepn\pagebb\s1\sb240\sa60\qc\kerning32\b\f2\fs32 Chapter 7\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa240\qc\kerning0\i\fs28 EXCURSION INTO SPACETOWN\par
\pard\fi216\qj\b0\i0\f0\fs24 Police Commissioner Julius Enderby polished his glasses with exquisite care and placed them upon the bridge of his nose.\par
Baley thought: It\rquote s a good trick. Keeps you busy while you\rquote re thinking what to say, and it doesn\rquote t cost money the way lighting up a pipe does.\par
And because the thought had entered his mind, he drew out his pipe and dipped into his pinched store of rough-cut. One of the few luxury crops still grown on Earth was tobacco, and its end was visibly approaching. Prices had gone up, never down, in Baley\rquote s lifetime; quotas down, never up.\par
Enderby, having adjusted his glasses, felt for the switch at one end of his desk and flicked his door into one-way transparency for a moment. \ldblquote Where is he now, by the way?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He told me he wanted to be shown through the Department, and I let Jack Tobin do the honors.\rdblquote  Baley lit his pipe and tightened its baffle carefully. The Commissioner, like most non-indulgers, was petty about tobacco smoke.\par
\ldblquote I hope you didn\rquote t tell him Daneel was a robot.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course I didn\rquote t.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner did not relax. One hand remained aimlessly busy with the automatic calendar on his desk.\par
\ldblquote How is it?\rdblquote  he asked, without looking at Baley.\par
\ldblquote Middling rough.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m sorry, Lije.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, firmly, \ldblquote You might have warned me that he looked completely human.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner looked surprised. \ldblquote I didn\rquote t?\rdblquote  Then, with sudden petulance, \ldblquote Damn it, you should have known. I wouldn\rquote t have asked you to have him stay at your house if he looked like R. Sammy. Now would I?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I know, Commissioner, but I\rquote d never seen a robot like that and you had. I didn\rquote t even know such things were possible. I just wish you\rquote d mentioned it, that\rquote s all.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Look, Lije, I\rquote m sorry. I should have told you. You\rquote re right. It\rquote s just that this job, this whole deal, has me so on edge that half the time I\rquote m just snapping at people for no reason. He, I mean this Daneel thing, is a new-type robot. It\rquote s still in the experimental stage.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote So he explained himself.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh. Well, that\rquote s it, then.\rdblquote\par
Baley tensed a little. This was it, now. He said, casually, teeth clenched on pipestem. \ldblquote R. Daneel has arranged a trip to Spacetown for me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote To Spacetown!\rdblquote  Enderby looked up with instant indignation. \ldblquote Yes. It\rquote s the logical next move, Commissioner. I\rquote d like to see the scene of the crime, ask a few questions.\rdblquote\par
Enderby shook his head decidedly. \ldblquote I don\rquote t think that\rquote s a good idea, Lije. We\rquote ve gone over the ground. I doubt there\rquote s anything new to be learned. And they\rquote re strange people. Kid gloves! They\rquote ve got to be handled with kid gloves. You don\rquote t have the experience.\rdblquote\par
He put a plump hand to his forehead and added, with unexpected fervor, \ldblquote I hate them.\rdblquote\par
Baley inserted hostility into his voice. \ldblquote Damn it, the robot came here and I should go there. It\rquote s bad enough sharing a front seat with a robot; I hate to take a back seat. Of course, if you don\rquote t think I\rquote m capable of running this investigation, Commissioner--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It isn\rquote t that, Lije. It\rquote s not you, it\rquote s the Spacers. You don\rquote t know what they\rquote re like.\rdblquote\par
Baley deepened his frown. \ldblquote Well, then, Commissioner, suppose you come along.\rdblquote  His right hand rested on his knee, and two of his fingers crossed automatically as he said that.\par
The Commissioner\rquote s eyes widened. \ldblquote No, Lije. I won\rquote t go there. Don\rquote t ask me to.\rdblquote  He seemed visibly to catch hold of his runaway words. More quietly, he said, with an unconvincing smile, \ldblquote Lots of work here, you know. I\rquote m days behind.\rdblquote\par
Baley regarded him thoughtfully. \ldblquote I tell you what, then. Why not get into it by trimension later on. Just for a while, you understand. In case I need help.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, yes. I suppose I can do that.\rdblquote  He sounded unenthusiastic.\par
\ldblquote Good.\rdblquote  Baley looked at the wall clock, nodded, and got up. \ldblquote I\rquote ll be in touch with you.\rdblquote\par
Baley looked back as he left the office, keeping the door open for part of an additional second. He saw the Commissioner\rquote s head begin bending down toward the crook of one elbow as it rested on the desk. The plain-clothes man could almost swear he heard a sob.\par
Jehoshaphat! he thought, in outright shock.\par
He paused in the common room and sat on the corner of a nearby desk, ignoring its occupant, who looked up, murmured a casual greeting, and returned to his work.\par
Baley unclipped the baffle from the bowl of the pipe and blew into it. He inverted the pipe itself over the desk\rquote s small ash vacuum and let the powdery white tobacco ash vanish. He looked regretfully at the empty pipe, readjusted the baffle, and put it away. Another pipeful gone forever!\par
He reconsidered what had just taken place. In one way, Enderby had not surprised him. He had expected resistance to any attempt on his own part to enter Spacetown. He had heard the Commissioner talk often enough about the difficulties of dealing with Spacers, about the dangers of allowing any but experienced negotiators to have anything to do with them, even over trifles.\par
He had not expected, however, to have the Commissioner give in so easily. He had supposed, at the very least, that Enderby would have insisted on accompanying him. The pressure of other work was meaningless in the face of the importance of this problem.\par
And that was not what Baley wanted. He wanted exactly what he had gotten. He wanted the Commissioner to be present by trimensional personification so that he could witness the proceedings from a point of safety.\par
Safety was the key word. Baley would need a witness that could not be put out of the way immediately. He needed that much as the minimum guarantee of his own safety.\par
The Commissioner had agreed to that at once. Baley remembered the parting sob, or ghost of one, and thought: Jehoshaphat, the man\rquote s into this past his depth.\par
A cheerful, slurring voice sounded just at Baley\rquote s shoulder and Baley started.\par
\ldblquote What the devil do you want?\rdblquote  he demanded savagely.\par
The smile on R. Sammy\rquote s face remained foolishly fixed. \ldblquote Jack says to tell you Daneel is ready, Lije.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right. Now get out of here.\rdblquote\par
He frowned at the robot\rquote s departing back. There was nothing so irritating as having that clumsy metal contraption forever making free with your front name. He\rquote d complained about that when R. Sammy first arrived and the Commissioner had shrugged his shoulders and said, \ldblquote You can\rquote t have it both ways, Lije. The public insists that City robots be built with a strong friendship circuit. All right, then. He is drawn to you. He calls you by the friendliest name he knows.\rdblquote\par
Friendship circuit! No robot built, of any type, could possibly hurt a human being. That was the First Law of Robotics:\par
\pard\li1440\ri1440\sb120\sa120\qj\fs20\ldblquote A robot may not injure a human being, or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm.\rdblquote\par
\pard\fi216\qj\fs24 No positronic brain was ever built without that injunction driven so deeply into its basic circuits that no conceivable derangement could displace it. There was no need for specialized friendship circuits.\par
Yet the Commissioner was right. The Earthman\rquote s distrust for robots was something quite irrational and friendship circuits had to be incorporated, just as all robots had to be made smiling. On Earth, at any rate.\par
R. Daneel, now, never smiled.\par
Sighing, Baley rose to his feet. He thought: Spacetown, next stop-- or, maybe, last stop!\par
The police forces of the City, as well as certain high officials, could still make use of individual squad cars along the corridors of the City and even along the ancient underground motorways that were barred to foot traffic. There were perennial demands on the part of the Liberals that these motorways be converted to children\rquote s playgrounds, to new shopping areas, or to expressway or localway extensions.\par
The strong pleas of \ldblquote Civic safety!\rdblquote  remained unvanquished, however. In cases of fires too large to be handled by local devices, in cases of massive breakdowns in power lines or ventilators, most of all in cases of serious riot, there had to be some means whereby the forces of the City could be mobilized at the stricken point in a hurry. No substitute for the motorways existed or could exist.\par
Baley had traveled along a motorway several times before in his life, but its indecent emptiness always depressed him. It seemed a million miles from the warm, living pulsation of the City. It stretched out like a blind and hollow worm before his eyes as he sat at the controls of the squad car. It opened continuously into new stretches as he moved around this gentle curve or that. Behind him, he knew without looking, another blind and hollow worm continually contracted and closed. The motorway was well lit, but lighting was meaningless in the silence and emptiness.\par
R. Daneel did nothing to break that silence or fill that emptiness. He looked straight ahead, as unimpressed by the empty motorway as by the bulging expressway.\par
In one sounding moment, to the tune of a wild whine of the squad car\rquote s siren, they popped out of the motorway and curved gradually into the vehicular lane of a City corridor.\par
The vehicular lanes were still conscientiously marked down each major corridor in reverence for one vestigial portion of the past. There were no vehicles any longer, except for squad cars, fire engines, and maintenance trucks, and pedestrians used the lanes in complete self-assurance. They scattered in indignant hurry before the advance of Baley\rquote s squealing car.\par
Baley, himself, drew a freer breath as noise surged in about him, but it was an interval only. In less than two hundred yards they turned into the subdued corridors that led to Spacetown Entrance.\par
They were expected. The guards obviously knew R. Daneel by sight and, although themselves human, nodded to him without the least self-consciousness.\par
One approached Baley and saluted with perfect, if frigid, military courtesy. He was tall and grave, though not the perfect specimen of Spacer physique that R. Daneel was.\par
He said, \ldblquote Your identification card, if you please, sir.\rdblquote\par
It was inspected quickly but thoroughly. Baley noticed that the guard wore flesh-colored gloves and had an all but unnoticeable filter in each nostril.\par
The guard saluted again and returned the card. He said, \ldblquote There is a small Men\rquote s Personal here which we would be pleased to have you use if you wish to shower.\rdblquote\par
It was in Baley\rquote s mind to deny the necessity, but R. Daneel plucked gently at his sleeve, as the guard stepped back to his place.\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote It is customary, partner Elijah, for City dwellers to shower before entering Spacetown. I tell you this since I know you have no desire, through lack of information on this matter, to render yourself or ourselves uncomfortable. It is also advisable for you to attend to any matters of personal hygiene you may think advisable. There will be no facilities within Spacetown for that purpose.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No facilities!\rdblquote  said Baley, strenuously. \ldblquote But that\rquote s impossible.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I mean, of course,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel, \ldblquote none for use by City dwellers.\rdblquote\par
Baley\rquote s face filled with a clearly hostile astonishment.\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote I regret the situation, but it is a matter of custom.\rdblquote\par
Wordlessly, Baley entered the Personal. He felt, rather than saw, R. Daneel entering behind him.\par
He thought: Checking on me? Making sure I wash the City dust off myself?\par
For a furious moment, he reveled in the thought of the shock he was preparing for Spacetown. It seemed to him suddenly minor that he might, in effect, be pointing a blaster at his own chest.\par
The Personal was small, but it was well appointed and antiseptic in its cleanliness. There was a trace of sharpness in the air. Baley sniffed at it, momentarily puzzled.\par
Then he thought: Ozone! They\rquote ve got ultraviolet radiation flooding the place.\par
A little sign blinked on and off several times, then remained steadily lit. It said, \ldblquote Visitor will please remove all clothing, including shoes, and place it in the receptacle below.\rdblquote\par
Baley acquiesced. He unhitched his blaster and blaster strap and recircled it about his naked waist. It felt heavy and uncomfortable.\par
The receptacle closed and his clothing was gone. The lighted sign blanked out. A new sign flashed ahead.\par
It said: \ldblquote Visitor will please tend to personal needs, then make use of the shower indicated by arrow.\rdblquote\par
Baley felt like a machine tool being shaped by long-distance force edges on an assembly line.\par
His first act upon entering the small shower cubicle was to draw up the moisture-proof flap on his blaster holster and clip it down firmly all about. He knew by long-standing test that he could still draw and use it in less than five seconds.\par
There was no knob or hook on which to hang his blaster. There was not even a visible shower head. He placed it in a corner away from the cubicle\rquote s entrance door.\par
Another sign flashed: \ldblquote Visitor will please hold arms directly out from his body and stand in the central circle with feet in the indicated positions.\rdblquote\par
As he placed his feet in the small depressions allowed for them, the sign blanked out. As it did so, a stinging, foaming spray hit him from ceiling, floor, and four walls. He felt the water welling up even beneath the soles of his feet. For a full minute it lasted, his skin reddening under the combined force of the heat and pressure and his lungs gasping for air in the warm dampness. There followed another minute of cool, low-pressure spray, and then finally a minute of warm air that left him dry and refreshed.\par
He picked up his blaster and blaster strap and found that they, too, were dry and warm. He strapped them on and stepped out of the cubicle in time to see R. Daneel emerge from a neighboring shower. Of course! R. Daneel was not a City dweller, but he had accumulated City dust.\par
Quite automatically, Baley looked away. Then, with the thought that, after all, R. Daneel\rquote s customs were not City customs, he forced his unwilling eyes back for one moment. His lips quirked in a tiny smile. R. Daneel\rquote s resemblance to humanity was not restricted to his face and hands but had been carried out with painstaking accuracy over the entire body.\par
Baley stepped forward in the direction he had been traveling continuously since entering the Personal. He found his clothes waiting for him, neatly folded. They had a warm, clean odor to them.\par
A sign said, \ldblquote Visitor will please resume his clothing and place his hand in the indicated depression.\rdblquote\par
Baley did so. He felt a definite tingling in the ball of his middle finger as he laid it down upon the clean, milky surface. He lifted his hand hastily and found a little drop of blood oozing out. As he watched, it stopped flowing.\par
He shook it off and pinched the finger. No more blood was flowing even then.\par
Obviously, they were analyzing his blood. He felt a definite pang of anxiety. His own yearly routine examination by Department doctors, he felt sure, was not carried on with the thoroughness or, perhaps, with the knowledge of these cold robot-makers from outer space. He was not sure he wanted too probing an inquiry into the state of his health.\par
The time of waiting seemed long to Baley, but when the light flashed again, it said simply, \ldblquote Visitor will proceed.\rdblquote\par
Baley drew a long breath of relief. He walked onward and stepped through an archway. Two metal rods closed in before him and, written in luminous air, were the words: \ldblquote Visitor is warned to proceed no further.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What the devil--\rdblquote  called out Baley, forgetting in his anger the fact that he was still in the Personal.\par
R. Daneel\rquote s voice was in his ear. \ldblquote The sniffers have detected a power source, I imagine. Are you carrying your blaster, Elijah?\rdblquote\par
Baley whirled, his face a deep crimson. He tried twice, then managed to croak out, \ldblquote A police officer has his blaster on him or in easy reach at all times, on duty and off.\rdblquote\par
It was the first time he had spoken in a Personal, proper, since he was ten years old. That had been in his uncle Boris\rquote s presence and had merely been an automatic complaint when he stubbed his toe. Uncle Boris had beaten him well when he reached home and had lectured him strongly on the necessities of public decency.\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote No visitor may be armed. It is our custom, Elijah. Even your Commissioner leaves his blaster behind on all visits.\rdblquote\par
Under almost any other circumstances, Baley would have turned on his heel and walked away, away from Spacetown and away from that robot. Now, however, he was almost mad with desire to go through with his exact plan and have his revenge to the brim in that way. This, he thought, was the unobtrusive medical examination that had replaced the more detailed one of the early days. He could well understand, he could understand to overflowing, the indignation and anger that had led to the Barrier Riots of his youth.\par
In black anger, Baley unhitched his blaster belt. R. Daneel took it from him and placed it within a recess in the wall. A thin metal plate slithered across it.\par
\ldblquote If you will put your thumb in the depression,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel, \ldblquote only your thumb will open it later on.\rdblquote\par
Baley felt undressed, far more so, in fact, than he had felt in the shower. He stepped across the point at which the rods had lately barred him, and, finally, out of the Personal.\par
He was back in a corridor again, but there was an element of strangeness about it. Up ahead, the light had an unfamiliar quality to it. He felt a whiff of air against his face and, automatically, he thought a squad car had passed.\par
R. Daneel must have read his uneasiness in his face. He said, \ldblquote You are essentially in open air now, Elijah. It is unconditioned.\rdblquote\par
Baley felt faintly sick. How could the Spacers be so rigidly careful of a human body, merely because it came from the City, and then breathe the dirty air of the open fields? He tightened his nostrils, as though by pulling them together he could the more effectively screen the ingoing air.\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote I believe you will find that open air is not deleterious to human health.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right,\rdblquote  said Baley, faintly.\par
The air currents hit annoyingly against his face. They were gentle enough, but they were erratic. That bothered him.\par
Worse came. The corridor opened into blueness and as they approached its end, strong white light washed down. Baley had seen sunlight. He had been in a natural Solarium once in the line of duty. But there, protecting glass had enclosed the place and the sun\rquote s own image had been refracted into a generalized glow. Here, all was open.\par
Automatically, he looked up at the sun, then turned away. His dazzled eyes blinked and watered.\par
A Spacer was approaching. A moment of misgiving struck Baley.\par
R. Daneel, however, stepped forward to greet the approaching man with a handshake. The Spacer turned to Baley and said, \ldblquote Won\rquote t you come with me, sir? I am Dr. Han Fastolfe.\rdblquote\par
Things were better inside one of the domes. Baley found himself goggling at the size of the rooms and the way in which space was so carelessly distributed, but was thankful for the feel of the conditioned air.\par
Fastolfe said, sitting down and crossing his long legs, \ldblquote I\rquote m assuming that you prefer conditioning to unobstructed wind.\rdblquote\par
He seemed friendly enough. There were fine wrinkles on his forehead and a certain flabbiness to the skin below his eyes and just under his chin. His hair was thinning, but showed no signs of gray. His large ears stood away from his head, giving him a humorous and homely appearance that comforted Baley.\par
Early that morning, Baley had looked once again at those pictures of Spacetown that Enderby had taken. R. Daneel had just arranged the Spacetown appointment and Baley was absorbing the notion that he was to meet Spacers in the flesh. Somehow that was considerably different from speaking to them across miles of carrier wave, as he had done on several occasions before.\par
The Spacers in those pictures had been, generally speaking, like those that were occasionally featured in the book-films: tall, redheaded, grave, coldly handsome. Like R. Daneel Olivaw, for instance.\par
R. Daneel named the Spacers for Baley and when Baley suddenly pointed and said, in surprise, \ldblquote That isn\rquote t you, is it?\rdblquote  R. Daneel answered, \ldblquote No, Elijah, that is my designer, Dr. Sarton.\rdblquote\par
He said it unemotionally.\par
\ldblquote You were made in your maker\rquote s image?\rdblquote  asked Baley, sardonically, but there was no answer to that and, in truth, Baley scarcely expected one. The Bible, as he knew, circulated only to the most limited extent on the Outer Worlds.\par
And now Baley looked at Han Fastolfe, a man who deviated very noticeably from the Spacer norm in looks, and the Earthman felt a pronounced gratitude for that fact.\par
\ldblquote Won\rquote t you accept food?\rdblquote  asked Fastolfe.\par
He indicated the table that separated himself and R. Daneel from the Earthman. It bore nothing but a bowl of varicolored spheroids. Baley felt vaguely startled. He had taken them for table decorations.\par
R. Daneel explained. \ldblquote These are the fruits of natural plant life grown on Aurora. I suggest you try this kind. It is called an apple and is reputed to be pleasant.\rdblquote\par
Fastolfe smiled. \ldblquote R. Daneel does not know this by personal experience, of course, but he is quite right.\rdblquote\par
Baley brought an apple to his mouth. Its surface was red and green. It was cool to the touch and had a faint but pleasant odor. With an effort, he bit into it and the unexpected tartness of the pulpy contents hurt his teeth.\par
He chewed it gingerly. City dwellers ate natural food, of course, whenever rations allowed it. He himself had eaten natural meat and bread often. But such food had always been processed in some way. It had been cooked or ground, blended or compounded. Fruit, now, properly speaking, should come in the form of sauce or preserve. What he was holding now must have come straight from the dirt of a planet\rquote s soil.\par
He thought: I hope they\rquote ve washed it at least.\par
Again he wondered at the spottiness of Spacer notions concerning cleanliness.\par
Fastolfe said, \ldblquote Let me introduce myself a bit more specifically. I am in charge of the investigation of the murder of Dr. Sarton at the Spacetown end as Commissioner Enderby is at the City end. If I can help you in any way, I stand ready to do so. We are as eager for a quiet solution of the affair and prevention of future incidents of the sort as any of you City men can be.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Thank you, Dr. Fastolfe,\rdblquote  said Baley. \ldblquote Your attitude is appreciated.\rdblquote\par
So much, he thought, for the amenities. He bit into the center of the apple and hard, dark little ovoids popped into his mouth. He spat automatically. They flew out and fell to the ground. One would have struck Fastolfe\rquote s leg had not the Spacer moved it hastily.\par
Baley reddened, started to bend.\par
Fastolfe said, pleasantly, \ldblquote It is quite all right, Mr. Baley. Just leave them, please.\rdblquote\par
Baley straightened again. He put the apple down gingerly. He had the uncomfortable feeling that once he was gone, the lost little objects would be found and picked up by suction; the bowl of fruit would be burnt or discarded far from Spacetown; the very room they were sitting in would be sprayed with viricide.\par
He covered his embarrassment with brusqueness. He said, \ldblquote I would like to ask permission to have Commissioner Enderby join our conference by trimensional personification.\rdblquote\par
Fastolfe\rquote s eyebrows raised. \ldblquote Certainly, if you wish it. Daneel, would you make the connection?\rdblquote\par
Baley sat in stiff discomfort until the shiny surface of the large parallel piped in one corner of the room dissolved away to show Commissioner Julius Enderby and part of his desk. At that moment, the discomfort eased and Baley felt nothing short of love for that familiar figure, and a longing to be safely back in that office with him, or anywhere in the City, for that matter. Even in the least prepossessing portion of the Jersey yeast-vat districts.\par
Now that he had his witness, Baley saw no reason for delay. He said, \ldblquote I believe I have penetrated the mystery surrounding the death of Dr. Sarton.\rdblquote\par
Out of the corner of his eye, he saw Enderby springing to his feet and grabbing wildly (and successfully) at his flying spectacles. By standing, the Commissioner thrust his head out of the limits of the trimensic receiver and was forced to sit down again, red-faced and speechless.\par
In a much quieter way, Dr. Fastolfe, head inclined to one side, was as startled. Only R. Daneel was unmoved.\par
\ldblquote Do you mean,\rdblquote  said Fastolfe, \ldblquote that you know the murderer?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  said Baley, \ldblquote I mean there was no murder.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What!\rdblquote  screamed Enderby.\par
\ldblquote One moment, Commissioner Enderby,\rdblquote  said Fastolfe, raising a hand. His eyes held Baley\rquote s and he said, \ldblquote Do you mean that Dr. Sarton is alive?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, sir, and I believe I know where he is.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Where?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Right there,\rdblquote  said Baley, and pointed firmly at R. Daneel Olivaw.\par
\pard\keepn\pagebb\s1\sb240\sa60\qc\kerning32\b\f2\fs32 Chapter 8\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa240\qc\kerning0\i\fs28 DEBATE OVER A ROBOT\par
\pard\fi216\qj\b0\i0\f0\fs24 At the moment, Baley was most conscious of the thud of his own pulse. He seemed to be living in a moment of suspended time. R. Daneel\rquote s expression was, as always, empty of emotion. Han Fastolfe wore a look of well-bred astonishment on his face and nothing more. It was Commissioner Julius Enderby\rquote s reaction that most concerned Baley, however. The trimensic receiver out of which his face stared did not allow of perfect reproduction. There was always that tiny flicker and that not-quite-ideal resolution. Through that imperfection and through the further masking of the Commissioner\rquote s spectacles, Enderby\rquote s eyes were unreadable.\par
Baley thought: Don\rquote t go to pieces on me, Julius. I need you.\par
He didn\rquote t really think that Fastolfe would act in haste or under emotional impulse. He had read somewhere once that Spacers had no religion, but substituted, instead, a cold and phlegmatic intellectualism raised to the heights of a philosophy. He believed that and counted on it. They would make a point of acting slowly and then only on the basis of reason.\par
If he were alone among them and had said what he had said, he was certain that he would never have returned to the City. Cold reason would have dictated that. The Spacers\rquote  plans were worth more to them, many times over, than the life of a City dweller. There would be some excuse made to Julius Enderby. Maybe they would present his corpse to the Commissioner, shake their heads, and speak of an Earthman conspiracy having struck again. The Commissioner would believe them. It was the way he was built. If he hated Spacers, it was a hatred based on fear. He wouldn\rquote t dare disbelieve them.\par
That was why he had to be an actual witness of events, a witness, moreover, safely out of reach of the Spacers\rquote  calculated safety measures.\par
The Commissioner said, chokingly, \ldblquote Lije, you\rquote re all wrong. I saw Dr. Sarton\rquote s corpse.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You saw the charred remnants of something you were told was Dr. Sarton\rquote s corpse,\rdblquote  retorted Baley, boldly. He thought grimly of the Commissioner\rquote s broken glasses. That had been an unexpected favor for the Spacers.\par
\ldblquote No, no, Lije. I knew Dr. Sarton well and his head was undamaged. It was he.\rdblquote  The Commissioner put his hand to his glasses uneasily, as though he, too, remembered, and added, \ldblquote I looked at him closely, very closely.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How about this one, Commissioner?\rdblquote  asked Baley, pointing to R. Daneel again. \ldblquote Doesn\rquote t he resemble Dr. Sarton?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, the way a statue would.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote An expressionless attitude can be assumed, Commissioner. Suppose that were a robot you had seen blasted to death. You say you looked closely. Did you look closely enough to see whether the charred surface at the edge of the blast was really decomposed organic tissue or a deliberately introduced layer of carbonization over fused metal.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner looked revolted. He said, \ldblquote You\rquote re being ridiculous.\rdblquote\par
Baley turned to the Spacer. \ldblquote Are you willing to have the body exhumed for examination, Dr. Fastolfe?\rdblquote\par
Dr. Fastolfe smiled. \ldblquote Ordinarily, I would have no objection, Mr. Baley, but I\rquote m afraid we do not bury our dead. Cremation is a universal custom among us.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Very convenient,\rdblquote  said Baley.\par
\ldblquote Tell me, Mr. Baley,\rdblquote  said Dr. Fastolfe, \ldblquote just how did you arrive at this very extraordinary conclusion of yours?\rdblquote\par
Baley thought: He isn\rquote t giving up. He\rquote ll brazen it out, if he can. He said, \ldblquote It wasn\rquote t difficult. There\rquote s more to imitating a robot than just putting on a frozen expression and adopting a stilted style of conversation. The trouble with you men of the Outer Worlds is that you\rquote re too used to robots. You\rquote ve gotten to accept them almost as human beings. You\rquote ve grown blind to the differences. On Earth, it\rquote s different. We\rquote re very conscious of what a robot is.\par
\ldblquote Now in the first place, R. Daneel is too good a human to be a robot. My first impression of him was that he was a Spacer. It was quite an effort for me to adjust myself to his statement that he was a robot. And of course, the reason for that was that he was a Spacer and wasn\rquote t a robot.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel interrupted, without any sign of self-consciousness at being himself so intimately the topic of debate. He said, \ldblquote As I told you, partner Elijah, I was designed to take a temporary place in a human society. The resemblance to humanity is purposeful.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Even,\rdblquote  asked Baley, \ldblquote down to the painstaking duplication of those portions of the body which, in the ordinary course of events, would always be covered by clothes? Even to the duplication of organs which, in a robot, would have no conceivable function?\rdblquote\par
Enderby said suddenly, \ldblquote How did you find that out?\rdblquote\par
Baley reddened. \ldblquote I couldn\rquote t help noticing in the--in the Personal.\rdblquote\par
Enderby looked shocked.\par
Fastolfe said, \ldblquote Surely you understand that a resemblance must be complete if it is to be useful. For our purposes, half measures are as bad as nothing at all.\rdblquote\par
Baley asked abruptly, \ldblquote May I smoke?\rdblquote\par
Three pipefuls in one day was a ridiculous extravagance, but he was riding a rolling torrent of recklessness and needed the release of tobacco. After all, he was talking back to Spacers. He was going to force their lies down their own throats.\par
Fastolfe said, \ldblquote I\rquote m sorry, but I\rquote d prefer that you didn\rquote t.\rdblquote\par
It was a \ldblquote preference\rdblquote  that had the force of a command. Baley felt that. He thrust back the pipe, the bowl of which he had already taken into his hand in anticipation of automatic permission.\par
Of course not, he thought bitterly. Enderby didn\rquote t warn me, because he doesn\rquote t smoke himself, but it\rquote s obvious. It follows. They don\rquote t smoke on their hygienic Outer Worlds, or drink, or have any human vices. No wonder they accept robots in their damned--what did R. Daneel call it?--C/Fe society? No wonder R. Daneel can play the robot as well as he does. They\rquote re all robots out there to begin with.\par
He said, \ldblquote The too complete resemblance is just one point out of a number. There was a near riot in my section as I was taking him home.\rdblquote  (He had to point. He could not bring himself to say either R. Daneel or Dr. Sarton.) \ldblquote It was he that stopped the trouble and he did it by pointing a blaster at the potential rioters.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good Lord,\rdblquote  said Enderby, energetically, \ldblquote the report stated that it was you--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I know, Commissioner,\rdblquote  said Baley. \ldblquote The report was based on information that I gave. I didn\rquote t want to have it on the record that a robot had threatened to blast men and women.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, no. Of course not.\rdblquote  Enderby was quite obviously horrified. He leaned forward to look at something that was out of the range of the trimensic receiver.\par
Baley could guess what it was. The Commissioner was checking the power gauge to see if the transmitter were being tapped.\par
\ldblquote Is that a point in your argument?\rdblquote  asked Fastolfe.\par
\ldblquote It certainly is. The First Law of Robotics states that a robot cannot harm a human being.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But R. Daneel did no harm.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote True. He even stated afterward that he wouldn\rquote t have fired under any circumstances. Still, no robot I ever heard of could have violated the spirit of the First Law to the extent of threatening to blast a man, even if he really had no intention to do so.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I see. Are you a robotics expert, Mr. Baley?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, sir. But I\rquote ve had a course in general robotics and in positronic analysis. I\rquote m not completely ignorant.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s nice,\rdblquote  said Fastolfe, agreeably, \ldblquote but you see, I am a robotics expert, and I assure you that the essence of the robot mind lies in a completely literal interpretation of the universe. It recognizes no spirit in the First Law, only the letter. The simple models you have on Earth may have their First Law so overlaid with additional safeguards that, to be sure, they may well be incapable of threatening a human. An advanced model such as R. Daneel is another matter. If I gather the situation correctly, Daneel\rquote s threat was necessary to prevent a riot. It was intended then to prevent harm to human beings. He was obeying the First Law, not defying it.\rdblquote\par
Baley squirmed inwardly, but maintained a tight external calm. It would go hard, but he would match this Spacer at his own game.\par
He said, \ldblquote You may counter each point separately, but they add up just the same. Last evening in our discussion of the so-called murder, this alleged robot claimed that he had been converted into a detective by the installation of a new drive into his positronic circuits. A drive, if you please, for justice.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ll vouch for that,\rdblquote  said Fastolfe. \ldblquote It was done to him three days ago under my own supervision.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote A drive for justice? Justice, Dr. Fastolfe, is an abstraction. Only a human being can use the term.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If you define \lquote justice\rquote  in such a way that it is an abstraction, if you say that it is the rendering of each man his due, that it is adhering to the right, or anything of the sort, I grant you your argument, Mr. Baley. A human understanding of abstractions cannot be built into a positronic brain in the present state of our knowledge.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You admit that, then--as an expert in robotics?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Certainly. The question is, what did R. Daneel mean by using the term \lquote justice\rquote ?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote From the context of our conversation, he meant what you and I and any human being would mean, but what no robot could mean.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why don\rquote t you ask him, Mr. Baley, to define the term?\rdblquote\par
Baley felt a certain loss of confidence. He turned to R. Daneel. \ldblquote Well?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, Elijah?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What is your definition of justice?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Justice, Elijah, is that which exists when all the laws are enforced.\rdblquote\par
Fastolfe nodded. \ldblquote A good definition, Mr. Baley, for a robot. The desire to see all laws enforced has been built into R. Daneel, now. Justice is a very concrete term to him since it is based on law enforcement, which is in turn based upon the existence of specific and definite laws. There is nothing abstract about it. A human being can recognize the fact that, on the basis of an abstract moral code, some laws may be bad ones and their enforcement unjust. What do you say, R. Daneel?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote An unjust law,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel evenly, \ldblquote is a contradiction in terms.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote To a robot it is, Mr. Baley. So you see, you mustn\rquote t confuse your justice and R. Daneel\rquote s.\rdblquote\par
Baley turned to R. Daneel sharply and said, \ldblquote You left my apartment last night.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel replied, \ldblquote I did. If my leaving disturbed your sleep, I am sorry.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Where did you go?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote To the Men\rquote s Personal.\rdblquote\par
For a moment, Baley was staggered. It was the answer he had already decided was the truth, but he had not expected it to be the answer R. Daneel would give. He felt a little more of his certainty oozing away, yet he held firmly on his track. The Commissioner was watching, his lensed eyes flicking from one to the other as they spoke. Baley couldn\rquote t back down now, no matter what sophistries they used against him. He had to hold to his point.\par
He said, \ldblquote On reaching my section, he insisted on entering Personal with me. His excuse was a poor one. During the night, he left to visit Personal again as he has just admitted. If he were a man, I\rquote d say he had every reason and right to do so. Obviously. As a robot, however, the trip was meaningless. The conclusion can only be that he is a man.\rdblquote\par
Fastolfe nodded. He seemed not in the least put out. He said, \ldblquote This is most interesting. Suppose we ask Daneel why he made his trip to Personal last night.\rdblquote\par
Commissioner Enderby leaned forward. \ldblquote Please, Dr. Fastolfe,\rdblquote  he muttered, \ldblquote it is not proper to--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You need not be concerned, Commissioner,\rdblquote  said Fastolfe, his thin lips curving back in something that looked like a smile but wasn\rquote t, \ldblquote I am certain that Daneel\rquote s answer will not offend your sensibilities or those of Mr. Baley. Won\rquote t you tell us, Daneel?\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote Elijah\rquote s wife, Jessie, left the apartment last night on friendly terms with me. It was quite obvious that she had no reason for thinking me to be other than human. She returned to the apartment knowing I was a robot. The obvious conclusion is that the information to that effect exists outside the apartment. It followed that my conversation with Elijah last night had been overheard. In no other way could the secret of my true nature have become common knowledge.\par
\ldblquote Elijah told me that the apartments were well insulated. We spoke together in low voices. Ordinary eavesdropping would not do. Still, it was known that Elijah is a policeman. If a conspiracy exists within the City sufficiently well organized to have planned the murder of Dr. Sarton, they may well have been aware that Elijah had been placed in charge of the murder investigation. It would fall within the realm of possibility then, even of probability, that his apartment had been spybeamed.\par
\ldblquote I searched the apartment as well as I could after Elijah and Jessie had gone to bed, but could find no transmitter. This complicated matters. A focused duo-beam could do the trick even in the absence of a transmitter, but that requires rather elaborate equipment.\par
\ldblquote Analysis of the situation led to the following conclusion. The one place where a City dweller can do almost anything without being disturbed or questioned is in the Personals. He could even set up a duo-beam. The custom of absolute privacy in the Personals is very strong and other men would not even look at him. The Section Personal is quite close to Elijah\rquote s apartment, so that the distance factor is not important. A suitcase model could be used. I went to the Personal to investigate.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And what did you find?\rdblquote  asked Baley quickly.\par
\ldblquote Nothing, Elijah. No sign of a duo-beam.\rdblquote\par
Dr. Fastolfe said, \ldblquote Well, Mr. Baley, does this sound reasonable to you?\rdblquote\par
But Baley\rquote s uncertainty was gone, now. He said, \ldblquote Reasonable as far as it goes, perhaps, but it stops short of perfection by a hell of a way. What he doesn\rquote t know is that my wife told me where she got the information and when. She learned he was a robot shortly after she left the house. Even then, the rumor had been circulating for hours. So the fact that he was a robot could not have leaked out through spying on our last evening\rquote s conversation.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Nevertheless,\rdblquote  said Dr. Fastolfe, \ldblquote his action last night of going to the Personal stands explained, I think.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But something is brought up that is not explained,\rdblquote  retorted Baley, heatedly. \ldblquote When, where, and how was the leak? How did the news get about that there was a Spacer robot in the City? As far as I know, only two of us knew about the deal, Commissioner Enderby and myself, and we told no one. --Commissioner, did anyone else in the Department know?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  said Enderby, anxiously. \ldblquote Not even the Mayor. Only we, and Dr. Fastolfe.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And he,\rdblquote  added Baley, pointing.\par
\ldblquote I?\rdblquote  asked R. Daneel.\par
\ldblquote Why not?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I was with you at all times, Elijah.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You were not,\rdblquote  cried Baley, fiercely. \ldblquote I was in Personal for half an hour or more before we went to my apartment. During that time, we two were completely out of contact with one another. It was then that you got in touch with your group in the City.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What group?\rdblquote  asked Fastolfe.\par
And \ldblquote What group?\rdblquote  echoed Commissioner Enderby almost simultaneously.\par
Baley rose from his chair and turned to the trimensic receiver. \ldblquote Commissioner, I want you to listen closely to this. Tell me if it doesn\rquote t all fall into a pattern. A murder is reported and by a curious coincidence it happens just as you are entering Spacetown to keep an appointment with the murdered man. You are shown the corpse of something supposed to be human, but the corpse has since been disposed of and is not available for close examination.\par
\ldblquote The Spacers insist an Earthman did the killing, even though the only way they can make such an accusation stick is to suppose that a City man had left the City and cut cross country to Spacetown alone and at night. You know damn well how unlikely that is.\par
\ldblquote Next they send a supposed robot into the City; in fact, they insist on sending him. The first thing the robot does is to threaten a crowd of human beings with a blaster. The second is to set in motion the rumor that there is a Spacer robot in the City. In fact, the rumor is so specific that Jessie told me it was known that he was working with the police. That means that before long it will be known that it was the robot who handled the blaster. Maybe even now the rumor is spreading across the yeast-vat country and down the Long Island hydroponic plants that there\rquote s a killer robot on the loose.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote This is impossible. Impossible!\rdblquote  groaned Enderby.\par
\ldblquote No, it isn\rquote t. It\rquote s exactly what\rquote s happening, Commissioner. Don\rquote t you see it? There\rquote s a conspiracy in the City, all right, but it\rquote s run from Spacetown. The Spacers want to be able to report a murder. They want riots. They want an assault on Spacetown. The worse things get, the better the incident--and Spacer ships come down and occupy the Cities of Earth.\rdblquote\par
Fastolfe said, mildly, \ldblquote We had an excuse in the Barrier Riots of twenty-five years ago.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You weren\rquote t ready then. You are now.\rdblquote  Baley\rquote s heart was pounding madly.\par
\ldblquote This is quite a complicated plot you\rquote re attributing to us, Mr. Baley. If we wanted to occupy Earth, we could do so in much simpler fashion.\par
\ldblquote Maybe not, Dr. Fastolfe. Your so-called robot told me that public opinion concerning Earth is by no means unified on your Outer Worlds. I think he was telling the truth at that time, anyway. Maybe an outright occupation wouldn\rquote t sit well with the people at home. Maybe an incident is an absolute necessity. A good shocking incident.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Like a murder, eh? Is that it? You\rquote ll admit it would have to be a pretended murder. You won\rquote t suggest, I hope, that we\rquote d really kill one of ourselves for the sake of an incident.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You built a robot to look like Dr. Sarton, blasted the robot, and showed the remains to Commissioner Enderby.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And then,\rdblquote  said Dr. Fastolfe, \ldblquote having used R. Daneel to impersonate Dr. Sarton in the false murder, we have to use Dr. Sarton to impersonate R. Daneel in the false investigation of the false murder.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Exactly. I am telling you this in the presence of a witness who is not here in the flesh and whom you cannot blast out of existence and who is important enough to be believed by the City government and by Washington itself. We will be prepared for you and we know what your intentions are. If necessary, our government will report directly to your people, expose the situation for exactly what it is. I doubt if this sort of interstellar rape will be tolerated.\rdblquote\par
Fastolfe shook his head. \ldblquote Please, Mr. Baley, you are being unreasonable. Really, you have the most astonishing notions. Suppose now, just quietly suppose, that R. Daneel is really R. Daneel. Suppose he is actually a robot. Wouldn\rquote t it follow that the corpse Commissioner Enderby saw was really Dr. Sarton? It would be scarcely reasonable to believe that the corpse were still another robot. Commissioner Enderby witnessed R. Daneel under construction and can vouch for the fact that only one existed.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If it comes to that,\rdblquote  said Baley, stubbornly, \ldblquote the Commissioner is not a robotics expert. You might have had a dozen such robots.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Stick to the point, Mr. Baley. What if R. Daneel is really R. Daneel? Would not the entire structure of your reasoning fall to the ground? Would you have any further basis for your belief in this completely melodramatic and implausible interstellar plot you have constructed?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If he is a robot! I say he is human.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yet you haven\rquote t really investigated the problem, Mr. Baley,\rdblquote  said Fastolfe. \ldblquote To differentiate a robot, even a very humanoid robot, from a human being, it isn\rquote t necessary to make elaborately shaky deductions from little things he says and does. For instance, have you tried sticking a pin into R. Daneel?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What?\rdblquote  Baley\rquote s mouth fell open.\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s a simple experiment. There are others perhaps not quite so simple. His skin and hair look real, but have you tried looking at them under adequate magnification. Then again, he seems to breathe, particularly when he is using air to talk, but have you noticed that his breathing is irregular, that minutes may go by during which he has no breath at all. You might even have trapped some of his expired air and measured the carbon dioxide content. You might have tried to draw a sample of blood. You might have tried to detect a pulse in his wrist, or a heartbeat under his shirt. Do you see what I mean, Mr. Baley?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s just talk,\rdblquote  said Baley, uneasily. \ldblquote I\rquote m not going to be bluffed. I might have tried any of those things, but do you suppose this alleged robot would have let me bring a hypodermic to him, or a stethoscope or a microscope?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course. I see your point,\rdblquote  said Fastolfe. He looked at R. Daneel and gestured slightly.\par
R. Daneel touched the cuff of his right shirt sleeve and the diamagnetic seam fell apart the entire length of his arm. A smooth, sinewy, and apparently entirely human limb lay exposed. Its short, bronze hairs, both in quantity and distribution, were exactly what one would expect of a human being.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote So?\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel pinched the ball of his right middle finger with the thumb and forefinger of his left hand. Exactly what the details of the manipulation that followed were, Baley could not see.\par
But, just as the fabric of the sleeve had fallen in two when the diamagnetic field of its seam had been interrupted, so now the arm itself fell in two.\par
There, under a thin layer of fleshlike material, was the dull blue gray of stainless steel rods, cords, and joints.\par
\ldblquote Would you care to examine Daneel\rquote s workings more closely, Mr. Baley?\rdblquote  asked Dr. Fastolfe politely.\par
Baley could scarcely hear the remark for the buzzing in his ears and for the sudden jarring of the Commissioner\rquote s high-pitched and hysterical laughter.\par
\pard\keepn\pagebb\s1\sb240\sa60\qc\kerning32\b\f2\fs32 Chapter 9\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa240\qc\kerning0\i\fs28 ELUCIDATION BY A SPACER\par
\pard\fi216\qj\b0\i0\f0\fs24 The minutes passed and the buzzing grew louder and drowned out the laughter. The dome and all it contained wavered and Baley\rquote s time sense wavered, too.\par
At least, he found himself sitting in an unchanged position but with a definite feeling of lost time. The Commissioner was gone; the trimensic receiver was milky and opaque; and R. Daneel sat at his side, pinching up the skin of Baley\rquote s bared upper arm. Baley could see, just beneath the skin, the small thin darkness of a hypo-sliver. It vanished as he watched, soaking and spreading away into the intercellular fluid, from that into the blood stream and the neighboring cells, from that into all the cells of his body.\par
His grip on reality heightened.\par
\ldblquote Do you feel better, partner Elijah?\rdblquote  asked R. Daneel.\par
Baley did. He pulled at his arm and the robot let him take it away. He rolled down his sleeve and looked about. Dr. Fastolfe sat where he had been, a small smile softening the homeliness of his face.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Did I black out?\rdblquote\par
Dr. Fastolfe said, \ldblquote In a way, yes. You received a sizable shock, I\rquote m afraid.\rdblquote\par
It came back to Baley quite clearly. He seized R. Daneel\rquote s nearer arm quickly, forcing up the sleeve as far as it would go, exposing the wrist. The robot\rquote s flesh felt soft to his fingers, but underneath was the hardness of something more than bone.\par
R. Daneel let his arm rest easily in the plain-clothes man\rquote s grip. Baley stared at it, pinching the skin along the median line. Was there a faint seam?\par
It was logical, of course, that there should be. A robot, covered with synthetic skin, and deliberately made to look human, could not be repaired in the ordinary fashion. A chest plate could not be unriveted for the purpose. A skull could not be hinged up and outward. Instead, the various parts of the mechanical body would have to be put together along a line of micromagnetic fields. An arm, a head, an entire body, must fall in two at the proper touch, then come together again at a contrary touch.\par
Baley looked up. \ldblquote Where\rquote s the Commissioner?\rdblquote  he mumbled, hot with mortification.\par
\ldblquote Pressing business,\rdblquote  said Dr. Fastolfe. \ldblquote I encouraged him to leave, I\rquote m afraid. I assured him we would take care of you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You\rquote ve taken care of me quite nicely already, thank you,\rdblquote  said Baley, grimly. \ldblquote I think our business is done.\rdblquote\par
He lifted himself erect on tired joints. He felt an old man, very suddenly. Too old to start over again. He needed no deep insight to foresee that future.\par
The Commissioner would be half frightened and half furious. He would face Baley whitely, taking his glasses off to wipe them every fifteen seconds. His soft voice (Julius Enderby almost never shouted) would explain carefully that the Spacers had been mortally offended.\par
\ldblquote You can\rquote t talk to Spacers that way, Lije. They won\rquote t take it.\rdblquote  (Baley could hear Enderby\rquote s voice very plainly down to the finest shade of intonation.) \ldblquote I warned you. No saying how much damage you\rquote ve done. I can see your point, mind you. I see what you were trying to do. If they were Earthmen, it would be different. I\rquote d say yes, chance it. Run the risk. Smoke them out. But Spacers! You might have told me, Lije. You might have consulted me. I know them. I know them inside and out.\rdblquote\par
And what would Baley be able to say? That Enderby was exactly the man he couldn\rquote t tell. That the project was one of tremendous risk and Enderby a man of tremendous caution. That it had been Enderby himself who had pointed up the supreme dangers of either outright failure or of the wrong kind of success. That the one way of defeating declassification was to show that guilt lay in Spacetown itself ...\par
Enderby would say, \ldblquote There\rquote ll have to be a report on this, Lije. There\rquote ll be all sorts of repercussions. I know the Spacers. They\rquote ll demand your removal from the case, and it\rquote ll have to be that way. You understand that, Lije, don\rquote t you? I\rquote ll try to make it easy on you. You can count on that. I\rquote ll protect you as far as I can, Lije.\rdblquote\par
Baley knew that would be exactly true. The Commissioner would protect him, but only as far as he could, not to the point, for instance, of infuriating further an angry Mayor.\par
He could hear the Mayor, too. \ldblquote Damn it, Enderby, what is all this? Why wasn\rquote t I consulted? Who\rquote s running the City? Why was an unauthorized robot allowed inside the City? And just what the devil did this Baley ...\rdblquote\par
If it came to a choice between Baley\rquote s future in the Department and the Commissioner\rquote s own, what possible result could Baley expect? He could find no reasonable way of blaming Enderby.\par
The least he could expect was demotion, and that was bad enough. The mere act of living in a modern City insured the bare possibility of existence, even for those entirely declassified. How bare that possibility was he knew only too well.\par
It was the addition of status that brought the little things: a more comfortable seat here, a better cut of meat there, a shorter wait in line at the other place. To the philosophical mind, these items might seem scarcely worth any great trouble to acquire.\par
Yet no one, however philosophical, could give up those privileges, once acquired, without a pang. That was the point.\par
What a trifling addition to the convenience of the apartment an activated washbasin was when for thirty years previously the trip to Personal had been an automatic and unregarded one. How useless it was even as a device to prove \ldblquote status\rdblquote  when it was considered the height of ill form to parade \ldblquote status.\rdblquote  Yet were the washbasin to be deactivated, how humiliating and unbearable would each added trip to Personal be! How yearningly attractive the memory of the bedroom shave! How filled with a sense of lost luxury!\par
It was fashionable for modern political writers to look back with a smug disapproval at the \ldblquote fiscalism\rdblquote  of Medieval times, when economy was based on money. The competitive struggle for existence, they said, was brutal. No truly complex society could be maintained because of the strains introduced by the eternal \ldblquote fight-for-the-buck.\rdblquote  (Scholars had varying interpretations of the word \ldblquote buck,\rdblquote  but there was no dispute over the meaning as a whole.)\par
By contrast, modern \ldblquote civism\rdblquote  was praised highly as efficient and enlightened.\par
Maybe so. There were historical novels both in the romantic and the sensational tradition, and the Medievalists thought \ldblquote fiscalism\rdblquote  had bred such things as individualism and initiative.\par
Baley wouldn\rquote t commit himself, but now he wondered sickly if ever a man fought harder for that buck, whatever it was, or felt its loss more deeply, than a City dweller fought to keep from losing his Sunday night option on a chicken drumstick--a real-flesh drumstick from a once-living bird.\par
Baley thought: Not me so much. There\rquote s Jessie and Ben.\par
Dr. Fastolfe\rquote s voice broke in upon his thoughts. \ldblquote Mr. Baley, do you hear me?\rdblquote\par
Baley blinked. \ldblquote Yes?\rdblquote  How long had he been standing there like a frozen fool?\par
\ldblquote Won\rquote t you sit down, sir? Having taken care of the matter on your mind, you may now be interested in some films we have taken of the scene of the crime and of the events immediately following.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, thank you. I have business in the City.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Surely the case of Dr. Sarton comes first.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not with me. I imagine I\rquote m off the case already.\rdblquote  Suddenly, he boiled over. \ldblquote Damn it, if you could prove R. Daneel was a robot, why didn\rquote t you do it at once? Why did you make such a farce of it all?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote My dear Mr. Baley, I was very interested in your deductions. As for being off the case, I doubt it. Before the Commissioner left, I made a special point of asking that you be retained. I believe he will co-operate.\rdblquote\par
Baley sat down, not entirely voluntarily. He said, sharply, \ldblquote Why?\rdblquote  Dr. Fastolfe crossed his legs and sighed. \ldblquote Mr. Baley, in general I have met two kinds of City dwellers, rioters and politicians. Your Commissioner is useful to us, but he is a politician. He tells us what we want to hear. He handles us, if you know what I mean. Now you came here and boldly accused us of tremendous crimes and tried to prove your case. I enjoyed the process. I found it a hopeful development.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How hopeful?\rdblquote  asked Baley sardonically.\par
\ldblquote Hopeful enough. You are someone I can deal with frankly. Last night, Mr. Baley, R. Daneel reported to me by shielded subether. Some things about you interested me very much. For instance, there was the point concerning the nature of the book-films in your apartment.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What about them?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote A good many dealt with historical and archaeological subjects. It makes it appear that you are interested in human society and that you know a little about its evolution.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Even policemen can spend their free time on book-films, if they so choose.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Quite. I\rquote m glad of your choice in viewing matter. It will help me in what I am trying to do. In the first place, I want to explain, or try to, the exclusivism of the men of the Outer Worlds. We live here in Spacetown; we don\rquote t enter the City; we mingle with you City dwellers only in a very rigidly limited fashion. We breathe the open air, but when we do, we wear filters. I sit here now with filters in my nostrils, gloves on my hands, and a fixed determination to come no closer to you than I can help. Why do you suppose that is?\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote There\rquote s no point in guessing.\rdblquote  Let him talk now.\par
\ldblquote If you guessed as some of your people do, you would say that it was because we despised the men of Earth and refused to lose caste by allowing their shadow to fall upon us. That is not so. The true answer is really quite obvious. The medical examination you went through, as well as the cleansing procedures, were not matters of ritual. They were dictated by necessity.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Disease?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, disease. My dear Mr. Baley, the Earthmen who colonized the Outer Worlds found themselves on planets entirely free of Terrestrial bacteria and viruses. They brought in their own, of course, but they also brought with them the latest medical and microbiological techniques. They had a small community of micro-organisms to deal with and no intermediate hosts. There were no mosquitoes to spread malaria, no snails to spread schistosomiasis. Disease agents were wiped out and symbiotic bacteria allowed to grow. Gradually, the Outer Worlds became disease-free. Naturally, as time went on, entrance requirements for immigrant Earthmen were made more and more rigorous, since less and less could the Outer Worlds endure the possible introduction of disease.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You\rquote ve never been sick, Dr. Fastolfe?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not with a parasitic disease, Mr. Baley. We are all liable to degenerative diseases such as atheroschlerosis, of course, but I have never had what you would call a cold. If I were to contract one, I might die of it. I\rquote ve built up no resistance to it whatsoever. That\rquote s what\rquote s wrong with us here in Spacetown. Those of us who come here run a definite risk. Earth is riddled with diseases to which we have no defense, no natural defense. You yourself are carrying the germs of almost every known disease. You are not aware of it, since you keep them all under control at almost all times through the antibodies your body has developed over the years. I, myself, lack the antibodies. Do you wonder that I come no closer to you? Believe me, Mr. Baley, I act aloof only in self-defense.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote If this is so, why isn\rquote t the fact made known on Earth? I mean, that it is not just queasiness on your part, but a defense against an actual physical danger.\rdblquote\par
The Spacer shook his head. \ldblquote We are few, Mr. Baley, and are disliked as foreigners anyway. We maintain our own safety on the basis of a rather shaky prestige as a superior class of being. We cannot afford to lose face by admitting that we are afraid to approach an Earthman. Not at least until there is a better understanding between Earthmen and Spacers.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote There won\rquote t be, on present terms. It\rquote s your supposed superiority that we--they hate you for.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It is a dilemma. Don\rquote t think we aren\rquote t aware of it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Does the Commissioner know of this?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We have never explained it to him flatly, as I have just done to you. He may guess it, however. He is quite an intelligent man.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If he guessed it, he might have told me,\rdblquote  Baley said reflectively.\par
Dr. Fastolfe lifted his eyebrows. \ldblquote If he had, then you wouldn\rquote t have considered the possibility of R. Daneel being a human Spacer. Is that it?\rdblquote\par
Baley shrugged slightly, tossing the matter to one side.\par
But Dr. Fastolfe went on, \ldblquote That\rquote s quite true, you know. Putting the psychological difficulties to one side, the terrible effect of the noise and crowds upon us, the fact remains that for one of us to enter the City is the equivalent of a death sentence. It is why Dr. Sarton initiated his project of humanoid robots. They were substitute men, designed to enter the City instead of us--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes. R. Daneel explained this to me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Do you disapprove?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Look,\rdblquote  said Baley, \ldblquote since we\rquote re talking to one another so freely, let me ask a question in simple words. Why have you Spacers come to Earth anyway? Why don\rquote t you leave us alone?\rdblquote\par
Dr. Fastolfe said, with obvious surprise, \ldblquote Are you satisfied with life on Earth?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We get along.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, but for how long will that continue? Your population goes up continuously; the available calories meet the needs only as a result of greater and greater effort. Earth is in a blind alley, man.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We get along,\rdblquote  repeated Baley stubbornly.\par
\ldblquote Barely. A City like New York must spend every ounce of effort getting water in and waste out. The nuclear power plants are kept going by uranium supplies that are constantly more difficult to obtain even from the other planets of the system, and the supply needed goes up steadily. The life of the City depends every moment on the arrival of wood pulp for the yeast vats and minerals for the hydroponic plants. Air must be circulated unceasingly. The balance is a very delicate one in a hundred directions, and growing more delicate each year. What would happen to New York if the tremendous flow of input and outgo were to be interrupted for even a single hour?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It never has been.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Which is no security for the future. In primitive times, individual population centers were virtually self-supporting, living on the produce of neighboring farms. Nothing but immediate disaster, a flood or a pestilence or crop failure, could harm them. As the centers grew and technology improved, localized disasters could be overcome by drawing on help from distant centers, but at the cost of making ever larger areas interdependent. In Medieval times, the open cities, even the largest, could subsist on food stores and on emergency supplies of all sorts for a week at least. When New York first became a City, it could have lived on itself for a day. Now it cannot do so for an hour. A disaster that would have been uncomfortable ten thousand years ago, merely serious a thousand years ago, and acute a hundred years ago would now be surely fatal.\rdblquote\par
Baley moved restlessly in his chair. \ldblquote I\rquote ve heard all this before. The Medievalists want an end to Cities. They want us to get back to the soil and to natural agriculture. Well, they\rquote re mad; we can\rquote t. There are too many of us and you can\rquote t go backward in history, only forward. Of course, if emigration to the Outer Worlds were not restricted--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You know why it must be restricted.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then what is there to do? You\rquote re tapping a dead power line.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What about emigration to new worlds? There are a hundred billion stars in the Galaxy. It is estimated that there are a hundred million planets that are inhabitable or can be made inhabitable.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s ridiculous.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why?\rdblquote  asked Dr. Fastolfe, with vehemence. \ldblquote Why is the suggestion ridiculous? Earthmen have colonized planets in the past. Over thirty of the fifty Outer Worlds, including my native Aurora, were directly colonized by Earthmen. Is colonization no longer possible?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well ...\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No answer? Let me suggest that if it is no longer possible, it is because of the development of City culture on Earth. Before the Cities, human life on Earth wasn\rquote t so specialized that they couldn\rquote t break loose and start all over on a raw world. They did it thirty times. But now, Earthmen are all so coddled, so enwombed in their imprisoning caves of steel, that they are caught forever. You, Mr. Baley, won\rquote t even believe that a City dweller is capable of crossing country to get to Spacetown. Crossing space to get to a new world must represent impossibility squared to you. Civism is ruining Earth, sir.\rdblquote\par
Baley said angrily, \ldblquote And if it does? How does it concern you people? It\rquote s our problem. We\rquote ll solve it. If not, it\rquote s our own particular road to hell.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Better your own road to hell than another\rquote s road to heaven, eh? I know how you must feel. It is not pleasant to listen to the preaching of a stranger. Yet I wish your people could preach to us, for we, too, have a problem, one that is quite analogous to yours.\rdblquote\par
Baley smiled crookedly. \ldblquote Overpopulation?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Analogous, not identical. Ours is underpopulation. How old would you say I was?\rdblquote\par
The Earthman considered for a moment and then deliberately overestimated. \ldblquote Sixty, I\rquote d say.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote A hundred and sixty, you should say.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote A hundred and sixty-three next birthday, to be exact. There\rquote s no trick to that. I\rquote m using the Standard Earth year as the unit. If I\rquote m fortunate, if I take care of myself, most of all, if I catch no disease on Earth, I may double that age. Men on Aurora have been known to live over three hundred and fifty years. And life expectancy is still increasing.\rdblquote\par
Baley looked to R. Daneel (who throughout the conversation had been listening in stolid silence), as though he were seeking confirmation.\par
He said, \ldblquote How is that possible?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote In an underpopulated society, it is practical to concentrate study on gerontology, to do research on the aging process. In a world such as yours, a lengthened life expectancy would be disastrous. You couldn\rquote t afford the resulting rise in population. On Aurora, there is room for tricentenarians. Then, of course, a long life becomes doubly and triply precious.\par
\ldblquote If you were to die now, you would lose perhaps forty years of your life, probably less. If I were to die, I would lose a hundred fifty years, probably more. In a culture such as ours, then, individual life is of prime importance. Our birth rate is low and population increase is rigidly controlled. We maintain a definite robot/man ratio designed to maintain the individual in the greatest comfort. Logically, developing children are carefully screened for physical and mental defects before being allowed to mature.\rdblquote\par
Baley interrupted. \ldblquote You mean you kill them if they don\rquote t--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If they don\rquote t measure up. Quite painlessly, I assure you. The notion shocks you, just as the Earthman\rquote s uncontrolled breeding shocks us.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We\rquote re controlled, Dr. Fastolfe. Each family is allowed so many children.\rdblquote\par
Dr. Fastolfe smiled tolerantly. \ldblquote So many of any kind of children; not so many healthy children. And even so, there are many illegitimates and your population increases.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Who\rquote s to judge which children should live?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s rather complicated and not to be answered in a sentence. Some day we may talk it out in detail.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, where\rquote s your problem? You sound satisfied with your society.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It is stable. That\rquote s the trouble. It is too stable.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Nothing pleases you. Our civilization is at the ragged edge of chaos, according to you, and your own is too stable.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It is possible to be too stable. No Outer World has colonized a new planet in two and a half centuries. There is no prospect for colonization in the future. Our lives in the Outer Worlds are too long to risk and too comfortable to upset.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t know about that, Dr. Fastolfe. You\rquote ve come to Earth. You risk disease.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, I do. There are some of us, Mr. Baley, who feel that the future of the human race is even worth the possible loss of an extended lifetime. Too few of us, I am sorry to say.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right. We\rquote re coming to the point. How is Spacetown helping matters?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote In trying to introduce robots here on Earth, we\rquote re doing our best to upset the balance of your City economy.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s your way of helping?\rdblquote  Baley\rquote s lips quivered. \ldblquote You mean you\rquote re creating a growing group of displaced and declassified men on purpose?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not out of cruelty or callousness, believe me. A group of displaced men, as you call them, are what we need to serve as a nucleus for colonization. Your ancient America was discovered by ships fitted out with men from the prisons. Don\rquote t you see that the City\rquote s womb has failed the displaced man. He has nothing to lose and worlds to gain by leaving Earth.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But it isn\rquote t working.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, it isn\rquote t,\rdblquote  said Dr. Fastolfe, sadly. \ldblquote There is something wrong. The resentment of the Earthman for the robot blocks things. Yet those very robots can accompany humans, smooth the difficulties of initial adjustment to a raw world, make colonization practical.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then what? More Outer Worlds?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No. The Outer Worlds were established before Civism had spread over Earth, before the Cities. The new colonies will be built by humans who have the City background plus the beginnings of a C/Fe culture. It will be a synthesis, a crossbreeding. As it stands now, Earth\rquote s own structure must go ricketing down in the near future, the Outer Worlds will slowly degenerate and decay in a somewhat further future, but the new colonies will be a new and healthy strain, combining the best of both cultures. By their reaction upon the older worlds, including Earth, we ourselves may gain new life.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t know. It\rquote s all misty, Dr. Fastolfe.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s a dream, yes. Think about it.\rdblquote  Abruptly the Spacer rose to his feet. \ldblquote I have spent more time with you than I intended. In fact, more time than our health ordinances allow. You will excuse me?\rdblquote\par
Baley and R. Daneel left the dome. Sunlight, at a different angle, somewhat yellower, washed down upon them once again. In Baley, there was a vague wonder whether sunlight might not seem different on another world. Less harsh and brazen perhaps. More acceptable. Another world? The ugly Spacer with the prominent ears had filled his mind with queer imaginings. Did the doctors of Aurora once look at the child Fastolfe and wonder if he ought to be allowed to mature? Wasn\rquote t he too ugly? Or did their criteria include physical appearance at all? When did ugliness become a deformity and what deformities.\par
But when the sunlight vanished and they entered the first door that led to the Personal, the mood became harder to maintain.\par
Baley shook his head with exasperation. It was all ridiculous. Forcing Earthmen to emigrate, to set up a new society! It was nonsense! What were these Spacers really after?\par
He thought about it and came to no conclusion.\par
Slowly, their squad car rolled down the vehicular lane. Reality was surging all about Baley. His blaster was a warm and comfortable weight against his hip. The noise and vibrant life of the City was just as warm, just as comfortable.\par
For a moment, as the City closed in, his nose tingled to a slight and fugitive pungence.\par
He thought wonderingly: The City smells.\par
He thought of the twenty million human beings crammed into the steel walls of the great cave and for the first time in his life he smelled them with nostrils that had been washed clean by outdoor air.\par
He thought: Would it be different on another world? Less people and more air-cleaner?\par
But the afternoon roar of the City was all around them, the smell faded and was gone, and he felt a little ashamed of himself.\par
He let the drive rod in slowly and tapped a larger share of the beamed power. The squad car accelerated sharply as it slanted down into the empty motorway.\par
\ldblquote Daneel,\rdblquote  he said.\par
\ldblquote Yes, Elijah.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why was Dr. Fastolfe telling me all he did?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It seems probable to me, Elijah, that he wished to impress you with the importance of the investigation. We are not here just to solve a murder, but to save Spacetown and with it, the future of the human race.\rdblquote\par
Baley said dryly, \ldblquote I think he\rquote d have been better off if he\rquote d let me see the scene of the crime and interview the men who first found the body.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I doubt if you could have added anything, Elijah. We have been quite thorough.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Have you? You\rquote ve got nothing. Not a clue. Not a suspect.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, you are right. The answer must be in the City. To be accurate, though, we did have one suspect.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What? You said nothing of this before.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I did not feel it to be necessary, Elijah. Surely it is obvious to you that one suspect automatically existed.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Who? In the devil\rquote s name, who?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The one Earthman who was on the scene. Commissioner Julius Enderby.\rdblquote\par
\pard\keepn\pagebb\s1\sb240\sa60\qc\kerning32\b\f2\fs32 Chapter 10\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa240\qc\kerning0\i\fs28 AFTERNOON OF A PLAIN-CLOTHES MAN\par
\pard\fi216\qj\b0\i0\f0\fs24 The squad car veered to one side, halted against the impersonal concrete wall of the motorway. With the humming of its motor stopped, the silence was dead and thick.\par
Baley looked at the robot next to him and said in an incongruously quiet voice, \ldblquote What?\rdblquote\par
Time stretched while Baley waited for an answer. A small and lonesome vibration rose and reached a minor peak, then faded. It was the sound of another squad car, boring its way past them on some unknown errand, perhaps a mile away. Or else it was a fire car hurrying along toward its own appointment with combustion.\par
A detached portion of Baley\rquote s mind wondered if any one man any longer knew all the motorways that twisted about in New York City\rquote s bowels. At no time in the day or night could the entire motorway system be completely empty, and yet there must be individual passages that no man had entered in years. With sudden, devastating clarity, he remembered a short story he had viewed as a youngster.\par
It concerned the motorways of London and began, quietly enough, with a murder. The murderer fled toward a prearranged hideout in the corner of a motorway in whose dust his own shoeprints had been the only disturbance for a century. In that abandoned hole, he could wait in complete safety till the search died.\par
But he took a wrong turning and in the silence and loneness of those twisting corridors he swore a mad and blaspheming oath that, in spite of the Trinity and all the saints, he would yet reach his haven. From that time on, no turning was right. He wandered through an unending maze from the Brighton Sector on the Channel to Norwich and from Coventry to Canterbury. He burrowed endlessly beneath the great City of London from end to end of its sprawl across the southeastern corner of Medieval England. His clothes were rags and his shoes ribbons, his strength wore down but never left him. He was tired, tired, but unable to stop. He could only go on and on with only wrong turnings ahead of him.\par
Sometimes he heard the sound of passing cars, but they were always in the next corridor, and however fast he rushed (for he would gladly have given himself up by then) the corridors he reached were always empty. Sometimes he saw an exit far ahead that would lead to the City\rquote s life and breath, but it always glimmered further away as he approached until he would turn-and it would be gone.\par
Occasionally, Londoners on official business through the underground would see a misty figure limping silently toward them, a semitransparent arm lifted in pleading, a mouth open and moving, but soundless. As it approached, it would waver and vanish.\par
It was a story that hid lost the attributes of ordinary fiction and had entered the realm of folklore. The \ldblquote Wandering Londoner\rdblquote  had become a familiar phrase to all the world.\par
In the depths of New York City, Baley remembered the story and stirred uneasily.\par
R. Daneel spoke and there was a small echo to his voice. He said, \ldblquote We may be overheard.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Down here? Not a chance. Now what about the Commissioner?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He was on the scene, Elijah. He is a City dweller. He was inevitably a suspect.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Was! Is he still a suspect?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No. His innocence was quickly established. For one thing, there was no blaster in his possession. There could not very well be one. He had entered Spacetown in the usual fashion; that was quite certain; and, as you know, blasters are removed as a matter of course.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Was the murder weapon found at all, by the way?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, Elijah. Every blaster in Spacetown was checked and none had been fired for weeks. A check of the radiation chambers was quite conclusive.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then whoever had committed the murder had either hidden the weapon so well--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It could not have been hidden anywhere in Spacetown. We were quite thorough.\rdblquote\par
Baley said impatiently, \ldblquote I\rquote m trying to consider all possibilities. It was either hidden or it was carried away by the murderer when he left.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Exactly.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And if you admit only the second possibility, then the Commissioner is cleared.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes. As a precaution, of course, he was cerebroanalyzed.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote By cerebroanalysis, I mean the interpretation of the electromagnetic fields of the living brain cells.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh,\rdblquote  said Baley, unenlightened. \ldblquote And what does that tell you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It gives us information concerning the temperamental and emotional makeup of an individual. In the case of Commissioner Enderby, it told us that he was incapable of killing Dr. Sarton. Quite incapable.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  agreed Baley. \ldblquote He isn\rquote t the type. I could have told you that.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It is better to have objective information. Naturally, all our people in Spacetown allowed themselves to be cerebroanalyzed as well.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All incapable, I suppose.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No question. It is why we know that the murderer must be a City dweller.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, then, all we have to do is pass the whole City under your cute little process.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It would not be very practical, Elijah. There might be millions temperamentally capable of the deed.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Millions,\rdblquote  grunted Baley, thinking of the crowds of that long ago day who had screamed at the dirty Spacers, and of the threatening and slobbering crowds outside the shoe store the night before.\par
He thought: Poor Julius. A suspect!\par
He could hear the Commissioner\rquote s voice describing the period after the discovery of the body: \ldblquote It was brutal, brutal.\rdblquote  No wonder he broke his glasses in shock and dismay. No wonder he did not want to return to Spacetown. \ldblquote I hate them,\rdblquote  he had ground out between his teeth..\par
Poor Julius. The man who could handle Spacers. The man whose greatest value to the City lay in his ability to get along with them. How much did that contribute to his rapid promotions?\par
No wonder the Commissioner had wanted Baley to take over. Good old loyal, close-mouthed Baley. College chum! He would keep quiet if he found out about that little incident. Baley wondered how cerebroanalysis was carried out. He imagined huge electrodes, busy pantographs skidding inklines across graphed paper, self-adjusting gears clicking into place now and then.\par
Poor Julius. If his state of mind were as appalled as it almost had a right to be, he might already be seeing himself at the end of his career with a forced letter of resignation in the hands of the Mayor.\par
The squad car slanted up into the sublevels of City Hall.\par
It was 14:30 when Baley arrived back at his desk. The Commissioner was out. R. Sammy, grinning, did not know where the Commissioner was.\par
Baley spent some time thinking. The fact that he was hungry didn\rquote t register.\par
At 15:20 R. Sammy came to his desk and said, \ldblquote The Commissioner is in now, Lije.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Thanks.\rdblquote\par
For once he listened to R. Sammy without being annoyed. R. Sammy, after all, was a kind of relation to R. Daneel, and R. Daneel obviously wasn\rquote t a person--or thing, rather--to get annoyed with. Baley wondered how it would be on a new planet with men and robots starting even in a City culture. He considered the situation quite dispassionately.\par
The Commissioner was going through some documents as Baley entered, stopping occasionally to make notations.\par
He said, \ldblquote That was a fairly giant-size blooper you pulled out in Spacetown.\rdblquote\par
It flooded back strongly. The verbal duel with Fastolfe.\par
His long face took on a lugubrious expression of chagrin. \ldblquote I\rquote ll admit I did, Commissioner. I\rquote m sorry.\rdblquote\par
Enderby looked up. His expression was keen through his glasses. He seemed more himself than at any time these thirty hours. He said, \ldblquote No real matter. Fastolfe didn\rquote t seem to mind, so we\rquote ll forget it. Unpredictable, these Spacers. You don\rquote t deserve your luck, Lije. Next time you talk it over with me before you make like a one-man subether hero,\rdblquote\par
Baley nodded. The whole thing rolled off his shoulders. He had tried a grandstand stunt and it hadn\rquote t worked. Okay. He was a little surprised that he could be so casual about it, but there it was.\par
He said, \ldblquote Look, Commissioner. I want to have a two-man apartment assigned to Daneel and myself. I\rquote m not taking him home tonight.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What\rquote s all this?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The news is out that he\rquote s a robot. Remember? Maybe nothing will happen, but if there is a riot, I don\rquote t want my family in the middle of it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Nonsense, Lije. I\rquote ve had the thing checked. There\rquote s no such rumor in the City.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Jessie got the story somewhere, Commissioner.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, there\rquote s no organized rumor. Nothing dangerous. I\rquote ve been checking this ever since I got off the trimensic at Fastolfe\rquote s dome. It was why I left. I had to track it down, naturally, and fast. Anyway, here are the reports. See for yourself. There\rquote s Doris Gillid\rquote s report. She went through a dozen Women\rquote s Personals in different parts of the City. You know Doris. She\rquote s a competent girl. Well, nothing showed. Nothing showed anywhere.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then how did Jessie get the rumor, Commissioner?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It can be explained. R. Daneel made a show of himself in the shoe store. Did he really pull a blaster, Lije, or were you stretching it a little?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He really pulled one. Pointed it, too.\rdblquote\par
Commissioner Enderby shook his head. \ldblquote All right. Someone recognized him. As a robot, I mean.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Hold on,\rdblquote  said Baley, indignantly. \ldblquote You can\rquote t tell him for a robot.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why not?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Could you? I couldn\rquote t.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What does that prove? We\rquote re no experts. Suppose there was a technician out of the Westchester robot factories in the crowd. A professional. A man who has spent his life building and designing robots. He notices something queer about R. Daneel. Maybe in the way he talks or holds himself. He speculates about it. Maybe he tells his wife. She tells a few friends. Then it dies. It\rquote s too improbable. People don\rquote t believe it. Only it got to Jessie before it died.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Maybe,\rdblquote  said Baley, doubtfully. \ldblquote But how about an assignment to a bachelor room for two, anyway?\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner shrugged, lifted the intercom. After a while, he said, \ldblquote Section Q-27 is all they can do. It\rquote s not a very good neighborhood.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It\rquote ll do,\rdblquote  said Baley.\par
\ldblquote Where\rquote s R. Daneel now, by the way?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He\rquote s at our record files. He\rquote s trying to collect information on Medievalist agitators.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good Lord, there are millions.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I know, but it keeps him happy.\rdblquote\par
Baley was nearly at the door, when he turned, half on impulse, and said, \ldblquote Commissioner, did Dr. Sarton ever talk to you about Spacetown\rquote s program? I mean, about introducing the C/Fe culture?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The what?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Introducing robots.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Occasionally.\rdblquote  The Commissioner\rquote s tone was not one of any particular interest.\par
\ldblquote Did he ever explain what Spacetown\rquote s point was?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh, improve health, raise the standard of living. The usual talk; it didn\rquote t impress me. Oh, I agreed with him. I nodded my head and all that. What could I do? It\rquote s just a matter of humoring them and hoping they\rquote ll keep within reason in their notions. Maybe some day ...\rdblquote\par
Baley waited but he didn\rquote t say what maybe--some--day might bring.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Did he ever mention anything about emigration?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Emigration! Never. Letting an Earthman into an Outer World is like finding a diamond asteroid in the rings of Saturn.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I mean emigration to new worlds.\rdblquote\par
But the Commissioner answered that one with a simple stare of incredulousness.\par
Baley chewed that for a moment, then said with sudden bluntness, \ldblquote What\rquote s cerebroanalysis, Commissioner? Ever hear of it?\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner\rquote s round face didn\rquote t pucker; his eyes didn\rquote t blink. He said evenly, \ldblquote No, what\rquote s it supposed to be?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Nothing. Just picked it up.\rdblquote\par
He left the office and at his desk continued thinking. Certainly, the Commissioner wasn\rquote t that good an actor. Well, then.\par
At 16:05 Baley called Jessie and told her he wouldn\rquote t be home that night nor probably any night for a while. It took a while after that to disengage her.\par
\ldblquote Lije, is there trouble? Are you in danger?\rdblquote\par
A policeman is always in a certain amount of danger, he explained lightly. It didn\rquote t satisfy her. \ldblquote Where will you be staying?\rdblquote\par
He didn\rquote t tell her. \ldblquote If you\rquote re going to be lonely tonight,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote stay at your mother\rquote s.\rdblquote  He broke connections abruptly, which was probably just as well.\par
At 16:20 he made a call to Washington. It took a certain length of time to reach the man he wanted and an almost equally long time to convince him he ought to make an air trip to New York the next day. By 16:40, he had succeeded.\par
At 16:55 the Commissioner left, passing him with an uncertain smile. The day shift left en masse. The sparser population that filled the offices in the evening and through the night made its way in and greeted him in varied tones of surprise.\par
R. Daneel came to his desk with a sheaf of papers.\par
\ldblquote And those are?\rdblquote  asked Baley.\par
\ldblquote A list of men and women who might belong to a Medievalist organization.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How many does the list include?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Over a million,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel. \ldblquote These are just part of them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Do you expect to check them all, Daneel?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Obviously that would be impractical, Elijah.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You see, Daneel, almost all Earthmen are Medievalists in one way or another. The Commissioner, Jessie, myself. Look at the Commissioner\rquote s--\rdblquote  (He almost said, \ldblquote spectacles,\rdblquote  then remembered that Earthmen must stick together and that the Commissioner\rquote s face must be protected in the figurative as well as the literal sense.) He concluded, lamely, \ldblquote eye ornaments.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel, \ldblquote I had noticed them, but thought it indelicate, perhaps, to refer to them. I have not seen such ornaments on other City dwellers.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It is a very old-fashioned sort of thing.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Does it serve a purpose of any sort?\rdblquote\par
Baley said, abruptly, \ldblquote How did you get your list?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It was a machine that did it for me. Apparently, one sets it for a particular type of offense and it does the rest. I let it scan all disorderly conduct cases involving robots over the past twenty-five years. Another machine scanned all City newspapers over an equal period for the names of those involved in unfavorable statements concerning robots or men of the Outer Worlds. It is amazing what can be done in three hours. The machine even eliminated the names of non-survivors from the lists.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You are amazed? Surely you\rquote ve got computers on the Outer Worlds?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of many sorts, certainly. Very advanced ones. Still, none are as massive and complex as the ones here. You must remember, of course, that even the largest Outer World scarcely has the population of one of your Cities and extreme complexity is not necessary.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Have you ever been on Aurora?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel, \ldblquote I was assembled here on Earth.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then how do you know about Outer World computers?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But surely that is obvious, partner Elijah. My data store is drawn from that of the late Dr. Sarton. You may take it for granted that it is rich in factual material concerning the Outer Worlds.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I see. Can you eat, Daneel?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I am nuclear-powered. I had thought you were aware of that.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m perfectly aware of it. I didn\rquote t ask if you needed to eat. I asked if you could eat. If you could put food in your mouth, chew it, and swallow it. I should think that would be an important item in seeming to be a man.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I see your point. Yes, I can perform the mechanical operations of chewing and swallowing. My capacity is, of course, quite limited, and I would have to remove the ingested material from what you might call my stomach sooner or later.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right. You can regurgitate, or whatever you do, in the quiet of our room tonight. The point is that I\rquote m hungry. I\rquote ve missed lunch, damn it, and I want you with me when I eat. And you can\rquote t sit there and not eat without attracting attention. So if you can eat, that\rquote s what I want to hear. Let\rquote s go!\rdblquote\par
Section kitchens were the same all over the City. What\rquote s more, Baley had been in Washington, Toronto, Los Angeles, London, and Budapest in the way of business, and they had been the same there, too. Perhaps it had been different in Medieval times when languages had varied and dietaries as well. Nowadays, yeast products were just the same from Shanghai to Tashkent and from Winnipeg to Buenos Aires; and English might not be the \ldblquote English\rdblquote  of Shakespeare or Churchill, but it was the final potpourri that was current over all the continents and, with some modification, on the Outer Worlds as well.\par
But language and dietary aside, there were the deeper similarities. There was always that particular odor, undefinable but completely characteristic of \ldblquote kitchen.\rdblquote  There was the waiting triple line moving slowly in, converging at the door and splitting up again, right, left, center. There was the rumble of humanity, speaking and moving, and the sharper clatter of plastic on plastic. There was the gleam of simulated wood, highly polished, highlights on glass, long tables, the touch of steam in the air.\par
Baley inched slowly forward as the line moved (with all possible staggering of meal hours, a wait of at least ten minutes was almost unavoidable) and said to R. Daneel in sudden curiosity, \ldblquote Can you smile?\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel, who had been gazing at the interior of the kitchen with cool absorption, said, \ldblquote I beg your pardon, Elijah.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m just wondering, Daneel. Can you smile?\rdblquote  He spoke in a casual whisper.\par
R. Daneel smiled. The gesture was sudden and surprising. His lips curled back and the skin about either end folded. Only the mouth smiled, however. The rest of the robot\rquote s face was untouched.\par
Baley shook his head. \ldblquote Don\rquote t bother, R. Daneel. It doesn\rquote t do a thing for you.\rdblquote\par
They were at the entrance. Person after person thrust his metal food tag through the appropriate slot and had it scanned. Click--click--click-- Someone once calculated that a smoothly running kitchen could allow the entrance of two hundred persons a minute, the tags of each one being fully scanned to prevent kitchen-jumping, meal-jumping, and ration-stretching. They had also calculated how long a waiting line was necessary for maximum efficiency and how much time was lost when any one person required special treatment.\par
It was therefore always a calamity to interrupt that smooth click-click by stepping to the manual window, as Baley and R. Daneel did, in order to thrust a special-permit pass at the official in charge.\par
Jessie, filled with the knowledge of an assistant dietitian, had explained it once to Baley.\par
\ldblquote It upsets things completely,\rdblquote  she had said. \ldblquote It throws off consumption figures and inventory estimates. It means special checks. You have to match slips with all the different Section kitchens to make sure the balance isn\rquote t too unbalanced, if you know what I mean. There\rquote s a separate balance sheet to be made out each week. Then if anything goes wrong and you\rquote re overdrawn, it\rquote s always your fault. It\rquote s never the fault of the City Government for passing out special tickets to everybody and his kid sister. Oh, no. And when we have to say that free choice is suspended for the meal, don\rquote t the people in line make a fuss. It\rquote s always the fault of the people behind the counter ...\rdblquote\par
Baley had the story in the fullest detail and so he quite understood the dry and poisonous look he received from the woman behind the window. She made a few hurried notes. Home Section, occupation, reason for meal displacement (\ldblquote official business,\rdblquote  a very irritating reason indeed, but quite irrefutable). Then she folded the slip with firm motions of her fingers and pushed it into a slot. A computer seized it, devoured the contents, and digested the information.\par
She turned to R. Daneel.\par
Baley let her have the worst. He said, \ldblquote My friend is out-of-City.\rdblquote\par
The woman looked finally and completely outraged. She said, \ldblquote Home City, please.\rdblquote\par
Baley intercepted the ball for Daneel once again. \ldblquote All records are to be credited to the Police Department. No details necessary. Official business.\rdblquote\par
The woman brought down a pad of slips with a jerk of her arm and filled in the necessary matter in dark-light code with practiced pressings of the first two fingers of her right hand.\par
She said, \ldblquote How long will you be eating here?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Till further notice,\rdblquote  said Baley.\par
\ldblquote Press fingers here,\rdblquote  she said, inverting the information blank.\par
Baley had a short qualm as R. Daneel\rquote s even fingers with their glistening nails pressed downward. Surely, they wouldn\rquote t have forgotten to supply him with fingerprints.\par
The woman took the blank away and fed it into the all-consuming machine at her elbow. It belched nothing back and Baley breathed more easily.\par
She gave them little metal tags that were in the bright red that meant \ldblquote temporary.\rdblquote\par
She said, \ldblquote No free choices. We\rquote re short this week. Take table DF.\rdblquote\par
They made their way toward DF.\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote I am under the impression that most of your people eat in kitchens such as these regularly.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes. Of course, it\rquote s rather gruesome eating in a strange kitchen. There\rquote s no one about whom you know. In your own kitchen, it\rquote s quite different. You have your own seat which you occupy all the time. You\rquote re with your family, your friends. Especially when you\rquote re young, mealtimes are the bright spot of the day.\rdblquote  Baley smiled in brief reminiscence.\par
Table DF was apparently among those reserved for transients. Those already seated watched their plates uneasily and did not talk with one another. They looked with sneaking envy at the laughing crowds at the other tables.\par
There is no one so uncomfortable, thought Baley, as the man eating out-of-Section. Be it ever so humble, the old saying went, there\rquote s no place like home-kitchen. Even the food tastes better, no matter how many chemists are ready to swear it to be no different from the food in Johannesburg.\par
He sat down on a stool and R. Daneel sat down next to him.\par
\ldblquote No free choice,\rdblquote  said Baley, with a wave of his fingers, \ldblquote so just close the switch there and wait.\rdblquote\par
It took two minutes. A disc slid back in the table top and a dish lifted.\par
\ldblquote Mashed potatoes, zymoveal sauce, and stewed apricots. Oh, well,\rdblquote  said Baley.\par
A fork and two slices of whole yeast bread appeared in a recess just in front of the low railing that went down the long center of the table.\par
R. Daneel said in a low voice, \ldblquote You may help yourself to my serving, if you wish.\rdblquote\par
For a moment, Baley was scandalized. Then he remembered and mumbled, \ldblquote That\rquote s bad manners. Go on. Eat.\rdblquote\par
Baley ate industriously but without the relaxation that allows complete enjoyment. Carefully, he flicked an occasional glance at R. Daneel. The robot ate with precise motions of his jaws. Too precise. It didn\rquote t look quite natural.\par
Strange! Now that Baley knew for a fact that R. Daneel was in truth a robot, all sorts of little items showed up clearly. For instance, there was no movement of an Adam\rquote s apple when R. Daneel swallowed.\par
Yet he didn\rquote t mind so much. Was he getting used to the creature? Suppose people started afresh on a new world (how that ran through his mind ever since Dr. Fastolfe had put it there); suppose Bentley, for instance, were to leave Earth; could he get so he didn\rquote t mind working and living alongside robots? Why not? The Spacers themselves did it.\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote Elijah, is it bad manners to watch another man while he is eating?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If you mean stare directly at him, of course. That\rquote s only common sense, isn\rquote t it? A man has a right to his privacy. Ordinary conversation is entirely in order, but you don\rquote t peer at a man while he\rquote s swallowing.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I see. Why is it then that I count eight people watching us closely, very closely?\rdblquote\par
Baley put down his fork. He looked about as though he were searching for the salt-pinch dispenser. \ldblquote I see nothing out of the ordinary.\rdblquote\par
But he said it without conviction. The mob of diners was only a vast conglomeration of chaos to him. And when R. Daneel turned his impersonal brown eyes upon him, Baley suspected uncomfortably that those were not eyes he saw, but scanners capable of noting, with photographic accuracy and in split seconds of time, the entire panorama.\par
\ldblquote I am quite certain,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel, calmly.\par
\ldblquote Well, then, what of it? It\rquote s crude behavior, but what does it prove?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I cannot say, Elijah, but is it coincidence that six of the watchers were in the crowd outside the shoe store last night?\rdblquote\par
\pard\keepn\pagebb\s1\sb240\sa60\qc\kerning32\b\f2\fs32 Chapter 11\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa240\qc\kerning0\i\fs28 ESCAPE ALONG THE STRIPS\par
\pard\fi216\qj\b0\i0\f0\fs24 Baley\rquote s grip tightened convulsively on his fork.\par
\ldblquote Are you sure?\rdblquote  he asked automatically, and as he said it, he realized the uselessness of the question. You don\rquote t ask a computer if it is sure of the answer it disgorges; not even a computer with arms and legs.\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote Quite!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Are they close to us?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not very. They are scattered.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right, then.\rdblquote  Baley returned to his meal, his fork moving mechanically. Behind the frown on his long face, his mind worked furiously.\par
Suppose the incident last night had been organized by a group of anti-robot fanatics, that it had not been the spontaneous trouble it had seemed. Such a group of agitators could easily include men who had studied robots with the intensity born of deep opposition. One of them might have recognized R. Daneel for what he was. (The Commissioner had suggested that, in a way. Damn it, there were surprising depths to that man.)\par
It worked itself out logically. Granting they had been unable to act in an organized manner on the spur of last evening\rquote s moment, they would still have been able to plan for the future. If they could recognize a robot such as R. Daneel, they could certainly realize that Baley himself was a police officer. A police officer in the unusual company of a humanoid robot would very likely be a responsible man in the organization. (With the wisdom of hindsight, Baley followed the line of reasoning with no trouble at all.)\par
It followed then that observers at City Hall (or perhaps agents within City Hall) would be bound to spot Baley, R. Daneel, or both before too long a time had passed. That they had done so within twenty-four hours was not surprising. They might have done so in less time if so much of Baley\rquote s day had not been spent in Spacetown and along the motorway.\par
R. Daneel had finished his meal. He sat quietly waiting, his perfect hands resting lightly on the end of the table.\par
\ldblquote Had we not better do something?\rdblquote  he asked.\par
\ldblquote We\rquote re safe here in the kitchen,\rdblquote  said Baley. \ldblquote Now leave this to me. Please.\rdblquote\par
Baley looked about him cautiously and it was as though he saw a kitchen for the first time.\par
People! Thousands of them. What was the capacity of an average kitchen? He had once seen the figure. Two thousand two hundred, he thought. This one was larger than average.\par
Suppose the cry, \ldblquote Robot,\rdblquote  were sent out into the air. Suppose it were tossed among the thousands like a ...\par
He was at a loss for a comparison, but it didn\rquote t matter. It wouldn\rquote t happen.\par
A spontaneous riot could flare anywhere, in the kitchens as easily as in the corridors or in the elevators. More easily, perhaps. There was a lack of inhibition at mealtimes, a sense of horseplay that could degenerate into something more serious at a trifle.\par
But a planned riot would be different. Here in the kitchen, the planners would themselves be trapped in a large and mob-filled room. Once the dishes went flying and the tables cracking there would be no easy way to escape. Hundreds would certainly die and they themselves might easily be among them.\par
No, a safe riot would have to be planned in the avenues of the City, in some relatively narrow passageway. Panic and hysteria would travel slowly along the constriction and there would be time for the quick, prepared fadeaway along the side passage or the unobtrusive step onto an escalating localway that would move them to a higher level and disappearance.\par
Baley felt trapped. There were probably others waiting outside. Baley and R. Daneel were to be followed to a proper point and the fuse would be set off.\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote Why not arrest them?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That would only start the trouble sooner. You know their faces, don\rquote t you? You won\rquote t forget?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I am not capable of forgetting.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then we\rquote ll nab them another time. For now, we\rquote ll break their net. Follow me. Do exactly as I do.\rdblquote\par
He rose, turned his dish carefully upside down, centering it on the movable disc from below which it had risen. He put his fork back in its recess. R. Daneel, watching, matched his action. The dishes and utensils dropped out of sight.\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote They are getting up, too.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right. It\rquote s my feeling they won\rquote t get too close. Not here.\rdblquote\par
The two moved into line now, drifting toward an exit where the click-click-click of the tags sounded ritualistically, each click recording the expenditure of a ration unit.\par
Baley looked back through the steamy haze and the noise and, with incongruous sharpness, thought of a visit to the City Zoo with Ben six or seven years ago. No, eight, because Ben had just passed his eighth birthday then. (Jehoshaphat! Where did the time go?)\par
It had been Ben\rquote s first visit and he had been excited. After all, he had never actually seen a cat or a dog before. Then, on top of that, there was the bird cage! Even Baley himself, who had seen it a dozen times before, was not immune to its fascination.\par
There is something about the first sight of living objects hurtling through air that is incomparably startling. It was feeding time in the sparrow cage and an attendant was dumping cracked oats into a long trough (human beings had grown used to yeast substitutes, but animals, more conservative in their way, insisted on real grain).\par
The sparrows flocked down in what seemed like hundreds. Wing to wing, with an ear-splitting twitter, they lined the trough ...\par
That was it; that was the picture that came to Baley\rquote s mind as he looked back at the kitchen he was leaving. Sparrows at the trough. The thought repelled him.\par
He thought: Jehoshaphat, there must be a better way.\par
But what better way? What was wrong with this way? It had never bothered him before.\par
He said abruptly to R. Daneel, \ldblquote Ready, Daneel?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I am ready, Elijah.\rdblquote\par
They left the kitchen and escape was now clearly and flatly up to Baley.\par
There is a game that youngsters know called \ldblquote running the strips.\rdblquote  Its rules vary in trivial fashion from City to City, but its essentials are eternal. A boy from San Francisco can join the game in Cairo with no trouble.\par
Its object is to get from point A to point B via the City\rquote s rapid transit system in such a way that the \ldblquote leader\rdblquote  manages to lose as many of his followers as possible. A leader who arrives at the destination alone is skillful indeed, as is a follower who refuses to be shaken.\par
The game is usually conducted during the evening rush hour when the increased density of the commuters makes it at once more hazardous and more complicated. The leader sets off, running up and down the accelerating strips. He does his best to do the unexpected, remaining standing on a given strip as long as possible, then leaping off suddenly in either direction. He will run quickly through several strips, then remain waiting once more.\par
Pity the follower who incautiously careens forward one strip too far. Before he has caught his mistake, unless he is extraordinarily nimble, he has driven past the leader or fallen behind. The clever leader will compound the error by moving quickly in the appropriate direction.\par
A move designed to increase the complexity of the task tenfold involves boarding the localways or the expressways themselves, and hurtling off the other side. It is bad form to avoid them completely and also bad form to linger on them.\par
The attraction of the game is not easy for an adult to understand, particularly for an adult who has never himself been a teenage striprunner. The players are roughly treated by legitimate travelers into whose path they find themselves inevitably flying. They are persecuted bitterly by the police and punished by their parents. They are denounced in the schools and on the subetherics. No year passes without its four or five teenagers killed at the game, its dozens hurt, its cases of innocent bystanders meeting tragedy of varying degree.\par
Yet nothing can be done to wipe out the strip-running gangs. The greater the danger, the more the strip-runners have that most valuable of all prizes, honor in the eyes of their fellows. A successful one may well swagger; a well-known leader is cock-of-the-walk.\par
Elijah Baley, for instance, remembered with satisfaction even now that he had been a strip-runner once. He had led a gang of twenty from the Concourse Sector to the borders of Queens, crossing three expressways. In two tireless and relentless hours, he had shaken off some of the most agile followers of the Bronx, and arrived at the destination point alone. They talked about that run for months.\par
Baley was in his forties now, of course. He hadn\rquote t run the strips for over twenty years, but he remembered some of the tricks. What he had lost in agility, he made up in another respect. He was a policeman. No one but another policeman as experienced as himself could possibly know the City as well, know where almost every metal-bordered alley began and ended.\par
He walked away from the kitchen briskly, but not too rapidly. Each moment he expected the cry of \ldblquote Robot, robot\rdblquote  to ring out behind him. That initial set of moments was the riskiest. He counted the steps until he felt the first accelerating strip moving under him.\par
He stopped for a moment, while R. Daneel moved smoothly up beside him.\par
\ldblquote Are they still behind us, Daneel?\rdblquote  asked Baley in a whisper.\par
\ldblquote Yes. They\rquote re moving closer.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That won\rquote t last,\rdblquote  said Baley confidently. He looked at the strips stretching to either side, with their human cargo whipping to his left more and more rapidly as their distance from him increased. He had felt the strips beneath his feet many times a day almost all the days of his life, but he had not bent his knees in anticipation of running them in seven thousand days and more. He felt the old familiar thrill and his breath grew more rapid.\par
He quite forgot the one time he had caught Ben at the game. He had lectured him interminably and threatened to have him put under police surveillance.\par
Lightly, quickly, at double the \ldblquote safe\rdblquote  rate, he went up the strips. He leaned forward sharply against the acceleration. The localway was humming past. For a moment, it looked as though he would mount, but suddenly he was fading backward, backward, dodging through the crowd to left and right as it thickened on the slower strips.\par
He stopped, and let himself be carried along at a mere fifteen miles an hour.\par
\ldblquote How many are with us, Daneel?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Only one, Elijah.\rdblquote  The robot was at his side, unruffled, unbreathing.\par
\ldblquote He must have been a good one in his day, too, but he won\rquote t last either.\rdblquote\par
Full of self-confidence, he felt a half-remembered sensation of his younger days. It consisted partly of the feeling of immersion in a mystic rite to which others did not belong, partly of the purely physical sensation of wind against hair and face, partly of a tenuous sense of danger.\par
\ldblquote They call this the side shuffle,\rdblquote  he said to R. Daneel in a low voice.\par
His long stride ate distance, but he moved along a single strip, dodging the legitimate crowd with a minimum of effort. He kept it up, moving always closer to the strip\rquote s edge, until the steady movement of his head through the crowd must have been hypnotic in its constant velocity--as it was intended to be.\par
And then, without a break in his step, he shifted two inches sideways and was on the adjoining strip. He felt an aching in his thigh muscles as he kept his balance.\par
He whipped through a cluster of commuters and was on the forty-five-mile strip.\par
\ldblquote How is it now, Daneel?\rdblquote  he asked.\par
\ldblquote He is still with us,\rdblquote  was the calm answer.\par
Baley\rquote s lips tightened. There was nothing for it but to use the moving platforms themselves, and that really required co-ordination; more, perhaps, than he still retained.\par
He looked about quickly. Exactly where were they now? [B-zzd] Street flashed by. He made rapid calculations and was off. Up the remaining strips, smoothly and steadily, a swing onto the localway platform.\par
The impersonal faces of men and women, calloused with the ennui of way-riding, were jolted into something like indignation as Baley and R. Daneel clambered aboard and squeezed through the railings.\par
\ldblquote Hey, now,\rdblquote  called a woman shrilly, clutching at her hat.\par
\ldblquote Sorry,\rdblquote  said Baley, breathlessly.\par
He forced his way through the standees and with a wriggle was off on the other side. At the last moment, a jostled passenger thumped his back in anger. He went staggering.\par
Desperately he tried to regain his footing. He lurched across a strip boundary and the sudden change in velocity forced him to his knees and then over on his side.\par
He had the sudden, panicky vision of men colliding with him and bowling over, of a spreading confusion on the strips, one of the dreaded \ldblquote man-jams\rdblquote  that would not fail to put dozens in the hospital with broken limbs.\par
But R. Daneel\rquote s arm was under his back. He felt himself lifted with more than a man\rquote s strength.\par
\ldblquote Thanks,\rdblquote  gasped Baley, and there was no time for more.\par
Off he went and down the decelerating strips in a complicated pattern so designed that his feet met the V-joint strips of an expressway at the exact point of crossover. Without the loss of rhythm, he was accelerating again, then up and over an expressway.\par
\ldblquote Is he with us, Daneel?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not one in sight, Elijah.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good. But what a strip-runner you would have been, Daneel! --Oops, now, now!\rdblquote\par
Off onto another localway in a whirl and down the strips with a clatter to a doorway, large and official in appearance. A guard rose to his feet.\par
Baley flashed his identification. \ldblquote Official business.\rdblquote\par
They were inside.\par
\ldblquote Power plant,\rdblquote  said Baley, curtly. \ldblquote This breaks our tracks completely.\rdblquote\par
He had been in power plants before, including this one. Familiarity did not lessen his feeling of uncomfortable awe. The feeling was heightened by the haunting thought that once his father had been high in the hierarchy of a plant such as this. That is, before ...\par
There was the surrounding hum of the tremendous generators hidden in the central well of the plant, the faint sharpness of ozone in the air, the grim and silent threat of the red lines that marked the limits beyond which no one could pass without protective clothing.\par
Somewhere in the plant (Baley had no idea exactly where) a pound of fissionable material was consumed each day. Every so often, the radioactive fission products, the so-called \ldblquote hot ash,\rdblquote  were forced by air pressure through leaden pipes to distant caverns ten miles out in the ocean and a half mile below the ocean floor. Baley sometimes wondered what would happen when the caverns were filled.\par
He said to R. Daneel with sudden gruffness, \ldblquote Stay away from the red lines.\rdblquote  Then, he bethought himself and added sheepishly, \ldblquote But I suppose it doesn\rquote t matter to you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Is it a question of radioactivity?\rdblquote  asked Daneel.\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then it does matter to me. Gamma radiation destroys the delicate balance of a positronic brain. It would affect me much sooner than it would affect you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You mean it would kill you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I would require a new positronic brain. Since no two can be alike, I would be a new individual. The Daneel you now speak to would be, in a manner of speaking, dead.\rdblquote\par
Baley looked at the other doubtfully. \ldblquote I never knew that. --Up these ramps.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The point isn\rquote t stressed. Spacetown wishes to convince Earthmen of the usefulness of such as myself, not of our weaknesses.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then why tell me?\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel turned his eyes full on his human companion. \ldblquote You are my partner, Elijah. It is well that you know my weaknesses and shortcomings.\rdblquote\par
Baley cleared his throat and had nothing more to say on the subject.\par
\ldblquote Out in this direction,\rdblquote  he said a moment later, \ldblquote and we\rquote re a quarter of a mile from our apartment.\rdblquote\par
It was a grim, lower-class apartment. One small room and two beds. Two fold-in chairs and a closet. A built-in subetheric screen that allowed no manual adjustment, and would be working only at stated hours, but would be working then. No washbasin, not even an Unactivated one, and no facilities for cooking or even boiling water. A small trash-disposal pipe was in one corner of the room, an ugly, unadorned, unpleasantly functional object.\par
Baley shrugged. \ldblquote This is it. I guess we can stand it.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel walked to the trash-disposal pipe. His shirt unseamed at a touch, revealing a smooth and, to all appearances, well-muscled chest.\par
\ldblquote What are you doing?\rdblquote  asked Baley.\par
\ldblquote Getting rid of the food I ingested. If I were to leave it, it would putrefy and I would become an object of distaste.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel placed two fingers carefully under one nipple and pushed in a definite pattern of pressure. His chest opened longitudinally. R. Daneel reached in and from a welter of gleaming metal withdrew a thin, translucent sac, partly distended. He opened it while Baley watched with a kind of horror.\par
R. Daneel hesitated. He said, \ldblquote The food is perfectly clean. I do not salivate or chew. It was drawn in through the gullet by suction, you know. It is edible.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s all right,\rdblquote  said Baley, gently. \ldblquote I\rquote m not hungry. You just get rid of it.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel\rquote s food sac was of fluorocarbon plastic, Baley decided. At least the food did not cling to it. It came out smoothly and was placed little by little into the pipe. A waste of good food at that, he thought.\par
He sat down on one bed and removed his shirt. He said, \ldblquote I suggest an early start tomorrow.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote For a specific reason?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The location of this apartment isn\rquote t known to our friends yet. Or at least I hope not. If we leave early, we are that much safer. Once in City Hall, we will have to decide whether our partnership is any longer practical.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You think it is perhaps not?\rdblquote\par
Baley shrugged and said dourly, \ldblquote We can\rquote t go through this sort of thing every day.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But it seems to me--\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel was interrupted by the sharp scarlet sliver of the door signal.\par
Baley rose silently to his feet and unlimbered his blaster. The door signal flashed once more.\par
He moved silently to the door, put his thumb on the blaster contact while he threw the switch that activated the one-way transparency patch. It wasn\rquote t a good view-patch; it was small and had a distorting effect, but it was quite good enough to show Baley\rquote s youngster, Ben, outside the door.\par
Baley acted quickly. He flung the door open, snatched brutally at Ben\rquote s wrist as the boy raised his hand to signal a third time, and pulled him in.\par
The look of fright and bewilderment faded only slowly from Ben\rquote s eyes as he leaned breathlessly against the wall toward which he had been hurled. He rubbed his wrist.\par
\ldblquote Dad!\rdblquote  he said in grieved tones. \ldblquote You didn\rquote t have to grab me like that.\rdblquote\par
Baley was staring through the view-patch of the once-again-closed door. As nearly as he could tell, the corridor was empty.\par
\ldblquote Did you see anyone out there, Ben?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No. Gee, Dad, I just came to see if you were all right.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why shouldn\rquote t I be all right?\rquote\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t know. It was Mom. She was crying and all like that. She said I had to find you. If I didn\rquote t go, she said she would go herself, and then she didn\rquote t know what would happen. She made me go, Dad.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote How did you find me? Did your mother know where I was?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, she didn\rquote t. I called up your office.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And they told you?\rdblquote\par
Ben looked startled at his father\rquote s vehemence. He said, in a low voice, \ldblquote Sure. Weren\rquote t they supposed to?\rdblquote\par
Baley and Daneel looked at one another.\par
Baley rose heavily to his feet. He said, \ldblquote Where\rquote s your mother now, Ben? At the apartment?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, we went to Grandma\rquote s for dinner and stayed there. I\rquote m supposed to go back there now. I mean, as long as you\rquote re all right, Dad.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You\rquote ll stay here. Daneel, did you notice the exact location of the floor communo?\rdblquote\par
The robot said, \ldblquote Yes. Do you intend leaving the room to use it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ve got to. I\rquote ve got to get in touch with Jessie.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Might I suggest that it would be more logical to let Bentley do that. It is a form of risk and he is less valuable.\rdblquote\par
Baley stared. \ldblquote Why, you--\rdblquote\par
He thought: Jehoshaphat, what am I getting angry about?\par
He went on more calmly, \ldblquote You don\rquote t understand, Daneel. Among us, it is not customary for a man to send his young son into possible danger, even if it is logical to do so.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Danger!\rdblquote  squeaked Ben in a sort of horrified pleasure. \ldblquote What\rquote s going on, Dad? Huh, Dad?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Nothing, Ben. Now, this isn\rquote t any of your business. Understand? Get ready for bed. I want you in bed when I get back. You hear me?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Aw, gosh. You could tell a fellow. I won\rquote t say anything.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote In bed!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Gosh!\rdblquote\par
Baley hitched his jacket back as he stood at the floor communo, so that his blaster butt was ready for snatching. He spoke his personal number into the mouthpiece and waited while a computer fifteen miles away checked it to make sure the call was permissible. It was a very short wait that was involved, since a plain-clothes man had no limit on the number of his business calls. He spoke the code number of his mother-in-law\rquote s apartment.\par
The small screen at the base of the instrument lit up, and her face looked out at him.\par
He said, in a low voice, \ldblquote Mother, put on Jessie.\rdblquote\par
Jessie must have been waiting for him. She was on at once. Baley looked at her face and then darkened the screen deliberately.\par
\ldblquote All right, Jessie. Ben\rquote s here. Now, what\rquote s the matter?\rdblquote  His eyes roved from side to side continuously, watching.\par
\ldblquote Are you all right? You aren\rquote t in trouble?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m obviously all right, Jessie. Now stop it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh, Lije, I\rquote ve been so worried.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What about?\rdblquote  he asked tightly. \ldblquote You know. Your friend.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What about him?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I told you last night. There\rquote ll be trouble.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Now, that\rquote s nonsense. I\rquote m keeping Ben with me for tonight and you go to bed. Good-by, dear.\rdblquote\par
He broke connections and waited for two breaths before starting back. His face was gray with apprehension and fear.\par
Ben was standing in the middle of the room when Baley returned. One of his contact lenses was neatly pocketed in a little suction cup. The other was still in his eye.\par
Ben said, \ldblquote Gosh, Dad, isn\rquote t there any water in the place? Mr. Olivaw says I can\rquote t go to the Personal.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He\rquote s right. You can\rquote t. Put that thing back in your eye, Ben. It won\rquote t hurt you to sleep with them for one night.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right.\rdblquote  Ben put it back, put away his suction cup and climbed into bed. \ldblquote Boy, what a mattress!\rdblquote\par
Baley said to R. Daneel. \ldblquote I suppose you won\rquote t mind sitting up.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course not. I was interested, by the way, in the queer glass Bentley wears close to his eyes. Do all Earthmen wear them?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No. Just some,\rdblquote  said Baley, absently. \ldblquote I don\rquote t, for instance.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote For what reason is it worn?\rdblquote\par
Baley was too absorbed with his own thoughts to answer. His own uneasy thoughts.\par
The lights were out.\par
Baley remained wakeful. He was dimly aware of Ben\rquote s breathing as it turned deep and regular and became a bit rough. When he turned his head, he grew somehow conscious of R. Daneel, sitting in a chair with grave immobility, face turned toward the door.\par
Then he fell asleep, and when he slept, he dreamed.\par
He dreamed Jessie was falling into the fission chamber of a nuclear power plant, falling and falling. She held out her arms to him, shrieking, but he could only stand frozenly just outside a scarlet line and watch her distorted figure turn as it fell, growing smaller until it was only a dot.\par
He could only watch her, in the dream, knowing that it was he, himself, who had pushed her.\par
\pard\keepn\pagebb\s1\sb240\sa60\qc\kerning32\b\f2\fs32 Chapter 12\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa240\qc\kerning0\i\fs28 WORDS FROM AN EXPERT\par
\pard\fi216\qj\b0\i0\f0\fs24 Elijah Baley looked up as Commissioner Julius Enderby entered the office. He nodded wearily.\par
The Commissioner looked at the clock and grunted, \ldblquote Don\rquote t tell me you\rquote ve been here all night!\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote I won\rquote t.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner said in a low voice, \ldblquote Any trouble last night?\rdblquote  Baley shook his head.\par
The Commissioner said, \ldblquote I\rquote ve been thinking that I could be minimizing the possibility of riots. If there\rquote s anything to--\rdblquote\par
Baley said tightly, \ldblquote For God\rquote s sake, Commissioner, if anything happened, I\rquote d tell you. There was no trouble of any sort.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right.\rdblquote  The Commissioner moved away, passing beyond the door that marked off the unusual privacy that became his exalted position.\par
Baley looked after him and thought: He must have slept last night.\par
Baley bent to the routine report he was trying to write as a cover-up for the real activities of the last two days, but the words he had tapped out by finger touch blurred and danced. Slowly, he became aware of an object standing by his desk.\par
He lifted his head. \ldblquote What do you want?\rdblquote\par
It was R. Sammy. Baley thought: Julius\rquote s private flunky. It pays to be a Commissioner.\par
R. Sammy said through his fatuous grin, \ldblquote The Commissioner wants to see you, Lije. He says right away.\rdblquote\par
Baley waved his hand. \ldblquote He just saw me. Tell him I\rquote ll be in later.\rdblquote\par
R. Sammy said, \ldblquote He says right away.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right. All right. Go away.\rdblquote\par
The robot backed away, saying, \ldblquote The Commissioner wants to see you right away, Lije. He says right away.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Jehoshaphat,\rdblquote  said Baley between his teeth. \ldblquote I\rquote m going. I\rquote m going.\rdblquote  He got up from his desk, headed for the office, and R. Sammy was silent.\par
Baley said as he entered, \ldblquote Damn it, Commissioner, don\rquote t send that thing after me, will you?\rdblquote\par
But the Commissioner only said, \ldblquote Sit down, Lije. Sit down.\rdblquote  Baley sat down and stared. Perhaps he had done old Julius an injustice. Perhaps the man hadn\rquote t slept after all. He looked fairly beat.\par
The Commissioner was tapping the paper before him. \ldblquote There\rquote s a record of a call you made to a Dr. Gerrigel at Washington by insulated beam.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s right, Commissioner.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote There\rquote s no record of the conversation, naturally, since it was insulated. What\rquote s it all about?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m after background information.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He\rquote s a roboticist, isn\rquote t he?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s right.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner put out a lower lip and suddenly looked like a child about to pout. \ldblquote But what\rquote s the point? What kind of information are you after?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m not sure, Commissioner. I just have a feeling that in a case like this, information on robots might help.\rdblquote  Baley clamped his mouth shut after that. He wasn\rquote t going to be specific, and that was that.\par
\ldblquote I wouldn\rquote t, Lije. I wouldn\rquote t. I don\rquote t think it\rquote s wise.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What\rquote s your objection, Commissioner?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The fewer the people who know about all this, the better.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ll tell him as little as I can. Naturally.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I still don\rquote t think it\rquote s wise.\rdblquote\par
Baley was feeling just sufficiently wretched to lose patience.\par
He said, \ldblquote Are you ordering me not to see him?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No. No. You do as you see fit. You\rquote re heading this investigation. Only ...\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Only what?\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner shook his head. \ldblquote Nothing. --Where is he? You know who I mean.\rdblquote\par
Baley did. He said, \ldblquote Daneel\rquote s still at the files.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner paused a long moment, then said, \ldblquote We\rquote re not making much progress, you know.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We\rquote re not making any so far. Still, things may change.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right, then,\rdblquote  said the Commissioner, but he didn\rquote t look as though he really thought it were all right.\par
R. Daneel was at Baley\rquote s desk, when the latter returned.\par
\ldblquote Well, and what have you got?\rdblquote  Baley asked gruffly.\par
\ldblquote I have completed my first, rather hasty, search through the files, partner Elijah, and I have located two of the people who tried to track us last night and who, moreover, were at the shoe store during the former incident.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Let\rquote s see.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel placed the small, stamp-size cards before Baley. They were mottled with the small dots that served as code. The robot also produced a portable decoder and placed one of the cards into an appropriate slot. The dots possessed electrical conduction properties different from that of the card as a whole. The electric field passing through the card was therefore distorted in a highly specific manner and in response to that specification the three-by-six screen above the decoder was filled with words. Words which, uncoded, would have filled several sheets of standard size report paper. Words, moreover, which could not possibly be interpreted by anyone not in possession of an official police decoder.\par
Baley read through the material stolidly. The first person was Francis Clousarr, age thirty-three at time of arrest two years before; cause of arrest, inciting to riot; employee at New York Yeast; home address, so-and-so; parentage, so-and-so; hair, eyes, distinguishing marks, educational history, employment history, psychoanalytic profile, physical profile, data here, data there, and finally reference to a photo in the rogues\rquote  gallery.\par
\ldblquote You checked the photograph?\rdblquote  asked Baley. \ldblquote Yes, Elijah.\rdblquote\par
The second person was Gerhard Paul. Baley glanced at the material on that card and said, \ldblquote This is all no good.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote I am sure that cannot be so. If there is an organization of Earthmen who are capable of the crime we are investigating, these are members. Is that not an obvious likelihood? Should they then not be questioned?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We\rquote d get nothing out of them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote They were there, both at the shoe store and in the kitchen. They cannot deny it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Just being there\rquote s no crime. Besides which, they can deny it. They can just say they weren\rquote t there. It\rquote s as simple as that. How can we prove they\rquote re lying?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I saw them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s no proof,\rdblquote  said Baley, savagely. \ldblquote No court, if it ever came to that, would believe that you could remember two faces in a blur of a million.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It is obvious that I can.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Sure. Tell them what you are. As soon as you do that, you\rquote re no witness. Your kind have no status in any court of law on Earth.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote I take it, then, that you have changed your mind.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What do you mean?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yesterday, in the kitchen, you said there was no need to arrest them. You said that as long as I remembered their faces, we could arrest them at any time.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, I didn\rquote t think it through,\rdblquote  said Baley. \ldblquote I was crazy. It can\rquote t be done.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not even for psychological reasons? They would not know we had no legal proof of their complicity in conspiracy.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, tensely, \ldblquote Look, I am expecting Dr. Gerrigel of Washington in half an hour. Do you mind waiting till he\rquote s been here and gone? Do you mind?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I will wait,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel.\par
Anthony Gerrigel was a precise and very polite man of middle height, who looked far from being one of the most erudite roboticists on Earth. He was nearly twenty minutes late, it turned out, and quite apologetic about it. Baley, white with an anger born of apprehension, shrugged off the apologies gracelessly. He checked his reservation on Conference Room D, repeated his instructions that they were not to be disturbed on any account for an hour, and led Dr. Gerrigel and R. Daneel down the corridor, up a ramp, and through a door that led to one of the spy-beam-insulated chambers.\par
Baley checked the walls carefully before sitting down, listening to the soft burr of the pulsometer in his hand, waiting for any fading of the steady sound which would indicate a break, even a small one, in the insulation. He turned it on the ceiling, floor, and, with particular care, on the door. There was no break.\par
Dr. Gerrigel smiled a little. He looked like a man who never smiled more than a little. He was dressed with a neatness that could only be described as fussy. His iron-gray hair was smoothed carefully back and his face looked pink and freshly washed. He sat with a posture of prim stiffness as though repeated maternal advice in his younger years concerning the desirability of good posture had rigidified his spine forever.\par
He said to Baley, \ldblquote You make this all seem very formidable.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s quite important, Doctor. I need information about robots that only you can give me, perhaps. Anything we say here, of course, is top secret and the City will expect you to forget it all when you leave.\rdblquote  Baley looked at his watch.\par
The little smile on the roboticist\rquote s face winked away. He said, \ldblquote Let me explain why I am late.\rdblquote  The matter obviously weighed upon him. \ldblquote I decided not to go by air. I get airsick.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s too bad,\rdblquote  said Baley. He put away the pulsometer, after checking its standard settings to make last-minute certain that there was nothing wrong with it, and sat down.\par
\ldblquote Or at least not exactly airsick, but nervous. A mild agoraphobia. It\rquote s nothing particularly abnormal, but there it is. So I took the expressways.\rdblquote\par
Baley felt a sudden sharp interest. \ldblquote Agoraphobia?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I make it sound worse than it is,\rdblquote  the roboticist said at once. \ldblquote It\rquote s just the feeling you get in a plane. Have you ever been in one, Mr. Baley?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Several times.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then you must know what I mean. It\rquote s that feeling of being surrounded by nothing; of being separated from--from empty air by a mere inch of metal. It\rquote s very uncomfortable.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote So you took the expressway?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All the way from Washington to New York?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh, I\rquote ve done it before. Since they built the Baltimore-Philadelphia tunnel, it\rquote s quite simple.\rdblquote\par
So it was. Baley had never made the trip himself, but he was perfectly aware that it was possible. Washington, Baltimore, Philadelphia, and New York had grown, in the last two centuries, to the point where all nearly touched. The Four-City Area was almost the official name for the entire stretch of coast, and there were a considerable number of people who favored administrational consolidation and the formation of a single super-City. Baley disagreed with that, himself. New York City by itself was almost too large to be handled by a centralized government. A larger City, with over fifty million population, would break down under its own weight.\par
\ldblquote The trouble was,\rdblquote  Dr. Gerrigel was saying, \ldblquote that I missed a connection in Chester Sector, Philadelphia, and lost time. That, and a little difficulty in getting a transient room assignment, ended by making me late.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Don\rquote t worry about that, Doctor. What you say, though, is interesting. In view of your dislike for planes, what would you say to going outside City limits on foot, Dr. Gerrigel?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote For what reason?\rdblquote  He looked startled and more than a little apprehensive.\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s just a rhetorical question. I\rquote m not suggesting that you really should. I want to know how the notion strikes you, that\rquote s all.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It strikes me very unpleasantly.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Suppose you had to leave the City at night and walk cross country for half a mile or more.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I--I don\rquote t think I could be persuaded to.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No matter how important the necessity?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If it were to save my life or the lives of my family, I might try. ...\rdblquote  He looked embarrassed. \ldblquote May I ask the point of these questions, Mr. Baley?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ll tell you. A serious crime has been committed, a particularly disturbing murder. I\rquote m not at liberty to give you the details. There is a theory, however, that the murderer, in order to commit the crime, did just what we were discussing; he crossed open country at night and alone. I was just wondering what kind of man could do that.\rdblquote\par
Dr. Gerrigel shuddered. \ldblquote No one I know. Certainly not I. Of course, among millions I suppose you could find a few hardy individuals.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But you wouldn\rquote t say it was a very likely thing for a human being to do?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No. Certainly not likely.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote In fact, if there\rquote s any other explanation for the crime, any other conceivable explanation, it should be considered.\rdblquote\par
Dr. Gerrigel looked more uncomfortable than ever as he sat bolt upright with his well-kept hands precisely folded in his lap. \ldblquote Do you have an alternate explanation in mind?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes. It occurs to me that a robot, for instance, would have no difficulty at all in crossing open country.\rdblquote\par
Dr. Gerrigel stood up. \ldblquote Oh, my dear sir!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What\rquote s wrong?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You mean a robot may have committed the crime?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why not?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Murder? Of a human being?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes. Please sit down, Doctor.\rdblquote\par
The roboticist did as he was told. He said, \ldblquote Mr. Baley, there are two acts involved: walking cross country, and murder. A human being could commit the latter easily, but would find difficulty in doing the former. A robot could do the former easily, but the latter act would be completely impossible. If you\rquote re going to replace an unlikely theory by an impossible one--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Impossible is a hell of a strong word, Doctor.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You\rquote ve heard of the First Law of Robotics, Mr. Baley?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Sure. I can even quote it: A robot may not injure a human being, or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm.\rdblquote  Baley suddenly pointed a finger at the roboticist and went on, \ldblquote Why can\rquote t a robot be built without the First Law? What\rquote s so sacred about it?\rdblquote\par
Dr. Gerrigel looked startled, then tittered, \ldblquote Oh, Mr. Baley.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, what\rquote s the answer?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Surely, Mr. Baley, if you even know a little about robotics, you must know the gigantic task involved, both mathematically and electronically, in building a positronic brain.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I have an idea,\rdblquote  said Baley. He remembered well his visit to a robot factory once in the way of business. He had seen their library of book-films, long ones, each of which contained the mathematical analysis of a single type of positronic brain. It took more than an hour for the average such film to be viewed at standard scanning speed, condensed though its symbolisms were. And no two brains were alike, even when prepared according to the most rigid specifications. That, Baley understood, was a consequence of Heisenberg\rquote s Uncertainty Principle. This meant that each film had to be supplemented by appendices involving possible variations.\par
Oh, it was a job, all right. Baley wouldn\rquote t deny that.\par
Dr. Gerrigel said, \ldblquote Well, then, you must understand that a design for a new type of positronic brain, even one where only minor innovations are involved, is not the matter of a night\rquote s work. It usually involves the entire research staff of a moderately sized factory and takes anywhere up to a year of time. Even this large expenditure of work would not be nearly enough if it were not that the basic theory of such circuits has already been standardized and may be used as a foundation for further elaboration. The standard basic theory involves the Three Laws of Robotics: the First Law, which you\rquote ve quoted; the Second Law, which states, \lquote A robot must obey the orders given it by human beings except where such orders would conflict with the First Law,\rquote  and the Third Law, which states, \lquote A robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Law.\rquote  Do you understand?\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel, who, to all appearances, had been following the conversation with close attention, broke in. \ldblquote If you will excuse me, Elijah, I would like to see if I follow Dr. Gerrigel. What you imply, sir, is that any attempt to build a robot, the working of whose positronic brain is not oriented about the Three Laws, would require first the setting up of a new basic theory and that this, in turn, would take many years.\rdblquote\par
The roboticist looked very gratified. \ldblquote That is exactly what I mean.\rdblquote\par
Mr. Baley waited a moment, then carefully introduced R. Daneel: \ldblquote This is Daneel Olivaw, Dr. Gerrigel.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good day, Mr. Olivaw.\rdblquote  Dr. Gerrigel extended his hand and shook Daneel\rquote s. He went on, \ldblquote It is my estimation that it would take fifty years to develop the basic theory of a non-Asenion positronic brain--that is, one in which the basic assumptions of the Three Laws are disallowed--and bring it to the point where robots similar to modern models could be constructed.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And this has never been done?\rdblquote  asked Baley. \ldblquote I mean, Doctor, that we\rquote ve been building robots for several thousand years. In all that time, hasn\rquote t anybody or any group had fifty years to spare?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Certainly,\rdblquote  said the roboticist, \ldblquote but it is not the sort of work that anyone would care to do.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I find that hard to believe. Human curiosity will undertake anything.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It hasn\rquote t undertaken the non-Asenion robot. The human race, Mr. Baley, has a strong Frankenstein complex.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote A what?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s a popular name derived from a Medieval novel describing a robot that turned on its creator. I never read the novel myself. But that\rquote s beside the point. What I wish to say is that robots without the First Law are simply not built.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And no theory for it even exists?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not to my knowledge, and my knowledge,\rdblquote  he smiled self-consciously, \ldblquote is rather extensive.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And a robot with a First Law built in could not kill a man?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Never. Unless such killing were completely accidental or unless it were necessary to save the lives of two or more men. In either case, the positronic potential built up would ruin the brain past recovery.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right,\rdblquote  said Baley. \ldblquote All this represents the situation on Earth. Right?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes. Certainly.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What about the Outer Worlds?\rdblquote\par
Some of Dr. Gerrigel\rquote s self-assurance seemed to ooze away. \ldblquote Oh dear, Mr. Baley, I couldn\rquote t say of my own knowledge, but I\rquote m sure that if non-Asenion positronic brains were ever designed or if the mathematical theory were worked out, we\rquote d hear of it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Would we? Well, let me follow up another thought in my mind, Dr. Gerrigel. I hope you don\rquote t mind.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No. Not at all.\rdblquote  He looked helplessly first at Baley, then at R. Daneel. \ldblquote After all, if it is as important as you say, I\rquote m glad to do all I can.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Thank you, Doctor. My question is, why humanoid robots? I mean that I\rquote ve been taking them for granted all my life, but now it occurs to me that I don\rquote t know the reason for their existence. Why should a robot have a head and four limbs? Why should he look more or less like a man?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You mean, why shouldn\rquote t he be built functionally, like any other machine?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Right,\rdblquote  said Baley. \ldblquote Why not?\rdblquote\par
Dr. Gerrigel smiled a little. \ldblquote Really, Mr. Baley, you are born too late. The early literature of robotics is riddled with a discussion of that very matter and the polemics involved were something frightful. If you would like a very good reference to the disputations among the functionalists and anti-functionalists, I can recommend Hanford\rquote s \lquote History of Robotics.\rquote  Mathematics is kept to a minimum. I think you\rquote d find it very interesting.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ll look it up,\rdblquote  said Baley, patiently. \ldblquote Meanwhile, could you give me an idea?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The decision was made on the basis of economics. Look here, Mr. Baley, if you were supervising a farm, would you care to buy a tractor with a positronic brain, a reaper, a harrow, a milker, an automobile, and so on, each with a positronic brain; or would you rather have ordinary unbrained machinery with a single positronic robot to run them all. I warn you that the second alternative represents only a fiftieth or a hundredth the expense.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But why the human form?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Because the human form is the most successful generalized form in all nature. We are not a specialized animal, Mr. Baley, except for our nervous systems and a few odd items. If you want a design capable of doing a great many widely various things, all fairly well, you could do no better than to imitate the human form. Besides that, our entire technology is based on the human form. An automobile, for instance, has its controls so made as to be grasped and manipulated most easily by human hands and feet of a certain size and shape, attached to the body by limbs of a certain length and joints of a certain type. Even such simple objects as chairs and tables or knives and forks are designed to meet the requirements of human measurements and manner of working. It is easier to have robots imitate the human shape than to redesign radically the very philosophy of our tools.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I see. That makes sense. Now isn\rquote t it true, Doctor, that the roboticists of the Outer World manufacture robots that are much more humanoid than our Own?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I believe that is true.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Could they manufacture a robot so humanoid that it would pass for human under ordinary conditions?\rdblquote\par
Dr. Gerrigel lifted his eyebrows and considered that. \ldblquote I think they could, Mr. Baley. It would be terribly expensive. I doubt that the return could be profitable.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Do you suppose,\rdblquote  went on Baley, relentlessly, \ldblquote that they could make a robot that would fool you into thinking it was human?\rdblquote\par
The roboticist tittered. \ldblquote Oh, my dear Mr. Baley. I doubt that. Really. There\rquote s more to a robot than just his appear--\rdblquote\par
Dr. Gerrigel froze in the middle of the word. Slowly, he turned to R. Daneel, and his pink face went very pale.\par
\ldblquote Oh, dear me,\rdblquote  he whispered. \ldblquote Oh, dear me.\rdblquote\par
He reached out one hand and touched R. Daneel\rquote s cheek gingerly. R. Daneel did not move away but gazed at the roboticist calmly.\par
\ldblquote Dear me,\rdblquote  said Dr. Gerrigel, with what was almost a sob in his voice, \ldblquote you are a robot.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It took you a long time to realize that,\rdblquote  said Baley, dryly.\par
\ldblquote I wasn\rquote t expecting it. I never saw one like this. Outer World manufacture?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  said Baley.\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s obvious now. The way he holds himself. The manner of his speaking. It is not a perfect imitation, Mr. Baley.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s pretty good though, isn\rquote t it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh, it\rquote s marvelous. I doubt that anyone could recognize the imposture at sight. I am very grateful to you for having me brought face to face with him. May I examine him?\rdblquote  The roboticist was on his feet, eager.\par
Baley put out a hand. \ldblquote Please, Doctor. In a moment. First, the matter of the murder, you know.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Is that real, then?\rdblquote  Dr. Gerrigel was bitterly disappointed and showed it. \ldblquote I thought perhaps that was just a device to keep my mind engaged and to see how long I could be fooled by--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It is not a device, Dr. Gerrigel. Tell me, now, in constructing a robot as humanoid as this one, with the deliberate purpose of having it pass as human, is it not necessary to make its brain possess properties as close to that of the human brain as possible?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Certainly.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Very well. Could not such a humanoid brain lack the First Law? Perhaps it is left out accidentally. You say the theory is unknown. The very fact that it is unknown means that the constructors might set up a brain without the First Law. They would not know what to avoid.\rdblquote\par
Dr. Gerrigel was shaking his head vigorously. \ldblquote No. No. Impossible.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Are you sure? We can test the Second Law, of course. --Daneel, let me have your blaster.\rdblquote\par
Baley\rquote s eyes never left the robot. His own hand, well to one side, gripped his own blaster tightly.\par
R. Daneel said calmly, \ldblquote Here it is, Elijah,\rdblquote  and held it out, butt first.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote A plain-clothes man must never abandon his blaster, but a robot has no choice but to obey a human.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Except, Mr. Baley,\rdblquote  said Dr. Gerrigel, \ldblquote when obedience involves breaking the First Law.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Do you know, Doctor, that Daneel drew his blaster on an unarmed group of men and women and threatened to shoot?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But I did not shoot,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel.\par
\ldblquote Granted, but the threat was unusual in itself, wasn\rquote t it, Doctor?\rdblquote  Dr. Gerrigel bit his lip. \ldblquote I\rquote d need to know the exact circumstances to judge. It sounds unusual.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Consider this, then. R. Daneel was on the scene at the time of the murder, and if you omit the possibility of an Earthman having moved across open country, carrying a weapon with him, Daneel and Daneel alone of all the persons on the scene could have hidden the weapon.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Hidden the weapon?\rdblquote  asked Dr. Gerrigel.\par
\ldblquote Let me explain. The blaster that did the killing was not found. The scene of the murder was searched minutely and it was not found. Yet it could not have vanished like smoke. There is only one place it could have been, only one place they would not have thought to look.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Where, Elijah?\rdblquote  asked R. Daneel.\par
Baley brought his blaster into view, held its barrel firmly in the robot\rquote s direction.\par
\ldblquote In your food sac,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote In your food sac, Daneel!\rdblquote\par
\pard\keepn\pagebb\s1\sb240\sa60\qc\kerning32\b\f2\fs32 Chapter 13\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa240\qc\kerning0\i\fs28 SHIFT TO THE MACHINE\par
\pard\fi216\qj\b0\i0\f0\fs24\ldblquote That is not so,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel, quietly.\par
\ldblquote Yes? We\rquote ll let the Doctor decide. Dr. Gerrigel?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Mr. Baley?\rdblquote  The roboticist, whose glance had been alternating wildly between the plain-clothes man and the robot as they spoke, let it come to rest upon the human being.\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ve asked you here for an authoritative analysis of this robot. I can arrange to have you use the laboratories of the City Bureau of Standards. If you need any piece of equipment they don\rquote t have, I\rquote ll get it for you. What I want is a quick and definite answer and hang the expense and trouble.\rdblquote\par
Baley rose. His words had emerged calmly enough, but he felt a rising hysteria behind them. At the moment, he felt that if he could only seize Dr. Gerrigel by the throat and choke the necessary statements out of him, he would forgo all science.\par
He said, \ldblquote Well, Dr. Gerrigel?\rdblquote\par
Dr. Gerrigel tittered nervously and said, \ldblquote My dear Mr. Baley, I won\rquote t need a laboratory.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why not?\rdblquote  asked Baley apprehensively. He stood there, muscles tense, feeling himself twitch.\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s not difficult to test the First Law. I\rquote ve never had to, you understand, but it\rquote s simple enough.\rdblquote\par
Baley pulled air in through his mouth and let it out slowly. He said, \ldblquote Would you explain what you mean? Are you saying that you can test him here?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, of course. Look, Mr. Baley, I\rquote ll give you an analogy. If I were a Doctor of Medicine and had to test a patient\rquote s blood sugar, I\rquote d need a chemical laboratory. If I needed to measure his basal metabolic rate, or test his cortical function, or check his genes to pinpoint a congenital malfunction, I\rquote d need elaborate equipment. On the other hand, I could check whether he were blind by merely passing my hand before his eyes and I could test whether he were dead by merely feeling for his pulse.\par
\ldblquote What I\rquote m getting at is that the more important and fundamental the property being tested, the simpler the needed equipment. It\rquote s the same in a robot. The First Law is fundamental. It affects everything. If it were absent, the robot could not react properly in two dozen obvious ways.\rdblquote\par
As he spoke, he took out a flat, black object which expanded into a small book-viewer. He inserted a well-worn spool into the receptacle. He then took out a stop watch and a series of white, plastic slivers that fitted together to form something that looked like a slide rule with three independent movable scales. The notations upon it struck no chord of familiarity to Baley.\par
Dr. Gerrigel tapped his book-viewer and smiled a little, as though the prospect of a bit of field work cheered him.\par
He said, \ldblquote It\rquote s my Handbook of Robotics. I never go anywhere without it. It\rquote s part of my clothes.\rdblquote  He giggled self-consciously.\par
He put the eyepiece of the viewer to his eyes and his finger dealt delicately with the controls. The viewer whirred and stopped, whirred and stopped.\par
\ldblquote Built-in index,\rdblquote  the roboticist said, proudly, his voice a little muffled because of the way in which the viewer covered his mouth. \ldblquote I constructed it myself. It saves a great deal of time. But then, that\rquote s not the point now, is it? Let\rquote s see. Umm, won\rquote t you move your chair near me, Daneel.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel did so. During the roboticist\rquote s preparations, he had watched closely and unemotionally.\par
Baley shifted his blaster.\par
What followed confused and disappointed him. Dr. Gerrigel proceeded to ask questions and perform actions that seemed without meaning, punctuated by references to his triple slide rule and occasionally to the viewer.\par
At one time, he asked, \ldblquote If I have two cousins, five years apart in age, and the younger is a girl, what sex is the older?\rdblquote\par
Daneel answered (inevitably, Baley thought), \ldblquote It is impossible to say on the information given.\rdblquote\par
To which Dr. Gerrigel\rquote s only response, aside from a glance at his stop watch, was to extend his right hand as far as he could sideways and to say, \ldblquote Would you touch the tip of my middle finger with the tip of the third finger of your left hand?\rdblquote\par
Daneel did that promptly and easily.\par
In fifteen minutes, not more, Dr. Gerrigel was finished. He used his slide rule for a last silent calculation, then disassembled it with a series of snaps. He put away his stop watch, withdrew the Handbook from the viewer, and collapsed the latter.\par
\ldblquote Is that all?\rdblquote  said Baley, frowning.\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s all.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But it\rquote s ridiculous. You\rquote ve asked nothing that pertains to the First Law.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh, my dear Mr. Baley, when a doctor hits your knee with a little rubber mallet and it jerks, don\rquote t you accept the fact that it gives information concerning the presence or absence of some degenerative nerve disease? When he looks closely at your eyes and considers the reaction of your iris to light, are you surprised that he can tell you something concerning your possible addiction to the use of certain alkaloids?\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Well, then? What\rquote s your decision?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Daneel is fully equipped with the First Law!\rdblquote  The roboticist jerked his head in a sharp affirmative.\par
\ldblquote You can\rquote t be right,\rdblquote  said Baley huskily.\par
Baley would not have thought that Dr. Gerrigel could stiffen into a rigidity that was greater than his usual position. He did so, however, visibly. The man\rquote s eyes grew narrow and hard.\par
\ldblquote Are you teaching me my job?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t mean you\rquote re incompetent,\rdblquote  said Baley. He put out a large, pleading hand. \ldblquote But couldn\rquote t you be mistaken? You\rquote ve said yourself nobody knows anything about the theory of non-Asenion robots. A blind man could read by using Braille or a sound-scriber. Suppose you didn\rquote t know that Braille or sound-scribing existed. Couldn\rquote t you, in all honesty, say that a man had eyes because he knew the contents of a certain book-film, and be mistaken?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  the roboticist grew genial again, \ldblquote I see your point. But still a blind man could not read by use of his eyes and it is that which I was testing, if I may continue the analogy. Take my word for it, regardless of what a non-Asenion robot could or could not do, it is certain that R. Daneel is equipped with First Law.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Couldn\rquote t he have falsified his answers?\rdblquote  Baley was floundering, and knew it.\par
\ldblquote Of course not. That is the difference between a robot and a man. A human brain, or any mammalian brain, cannot be completely analyzed by any mathematical discipline now known. No response can therefore be counted upon as a certainty. The robot brain is completely analyzable, or it could not be constructed. We know exactly what the responses to given stimuli must be. No robot can truly falsify answers. The thing you call falsification just doesn\rquote t exist in the robot\rquote s mental horizon.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then let\rquote s get down to cases. R. Daneel did point a blaster at a crowd of human beings. I saw that. I was there. Granted that he didn\rquote t shoot, wouldn\rquote t the First Law still have forced him into a kind of neurosis? It didn\rquote t, you know. He was perfectly normal afterward.\rdblquote\par
The roboticist put a hesitant hand to his chin. \ldblquote That is anomalous.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not at all,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel, suddenly. \ldblquote Partner Elijah, would you look at the blaster that you took from me?\rdblquote\par
Baley looked down upon the blaster he held cradled in his left hand.\par
\ldblquote Break open the charge chamber,\rdblquote  urged R. Daneel. \ldblquote Inspect it.\rdblquote  Baley weighed his chances, then slowly put his own blaster on the table beside him. With a quick movement, he opened the robot\rquote s blaster.\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s empty,\rdblquote  he said, blankly.\par
\ldblquote There is no charge in it,\rdblquote  agreed R. Daneel. \ldblquote If you will look closer, you will see that there has never been a charge in it. The blaster has no ignition bud and cannot be used.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote You held an uncharged blaster on the crowd?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I had to have a blaster or fail in my role as plain-clothes man,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel. \ldblquote Yet to carry a charged and usable blaster might have made it possible for me to hurt a human being by accident, a thing which is, of course, unthinkable. I would have explained this at the time, but you were angry and would not listen.\rdblquote\par
Baley stared bleakly at the useless blaster in his hand and said in a low voice, \ldblquote I think that\rquote s all, Dr. Gerrigel. Thank you for helping out.\rdblquote\par
Baley sent out for lunch, but when it came (yeast-nut cake and a rather extravagant slice of fried chicken on cracker) he could only stare at it.\par
Round and round went the currents of his mind. The lines on his long face were etched in deep gloom.\par
He was living in an unreal world, a cruel, topsy-turvy world.\par
How had it happened? The immediate past stretched behind him like a misty improbable dream dating back to the moment he had stepped into Julius Enderby\rquote s office and found himself suddenly immersed in a nightmare of murder and robotics.\par
Jehoshaphat! It had begun only fifty hours before.\par
Persistently, he had sought the solution in Spacetown. Twice he had accused R. Daneel, once as a human being in disguise, and once as an admitted and actual robot, each time as a murderer. Twice the accusation had been bent back and broken.\par
He was being driven back. Against his will he was forced to turn his thoughts into the City, and since last night he dared not. Certain questions battered at his conscious mind, but he would not listen; he felt he could not. If he heard them, he couldn\rquote t help but answer them and, oh God, he didn\rquote t want to face the answers.\par
\ldblquote Lije! Lije!\rdblquote  A hand shook Baley\rquote s shoulder roughly.\par
Baley stirred and said, \ldblquote What\rquote s up, Phil?\rdblquote\par
Philip Norris, Plain-clothes man C-5, sat down, put his hands on his knees, and leaned forward, peering at Baley\rquote s face. \ldblquote What happened to you? Been living on knockout drops lately? You were sitting there with your eyes open and, near as I could make out, you were dead.\rdblquote\par
He rubbed his thinning, pale blond hair, and his close-set eyes appraised Baley\rquote s cooling lunch greedily. \ldblquote Chicken!\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote It\rquote s getting so you can\rquote t get it without a doctor\rquote s prescription.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Take some,\rdblquote  said Baley, listlessly.\par
Decorum won out and Norris said, \ldblquote Oh, well, I\rquote m going out to eat in a minute. You keep it. --Say, what\rquote s doing with the Commish?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What?\rdblquote\par
Norris attempted a casual attitude, but his hands were restless. He said, \ldblquote Go on. You know what I mean. You\rquote ve been living with him ever since he got back. What\rquote s up? A promotion in the works?\rdblquote\par
Baley frowned and felt reality return somewhat at the touch of office politics. Norris had approximately his own seniority and he was bound to watch most assiduously for any sign of official preference in Baley\rquote s direction.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote No promotion. Believe me. It\rquote s nothing. Nothing. And if it\rquote s the Commissioner you\rquote re wanting, I wish I could give him to you. Jehoshaphat! Take him!\rdblquote\par
Norris said, \ldblquote Don\rquote t get me wrong. I don\rquote t care if you get promoted. I just mean that if you\rquote ve got any pull with the Commish, how about using it for the kid?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What kid?\rdblquote\par
There was no need of any answer to that. Vincent Barrett, the youngster who had been moved out of his job to make room for R. Sammy, was shuffling up from an unnoticed corner of the room. A skull cap turned restlessly in his hands and the skin over his high cheekbones moved as he tried to smile.\par
\ldblquote Hello, Mr. Baley.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh, hello, Vince. How\rquote re you doing?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not so good, Mr. Baley.\rdblquote\par
He was looking about hungrily. Baley thought: He looks lost, half dead--declassified.\par
Then, savagely, his lips almost moving with the force of his emotion, he thought: But what does he want from me?\par
He said, \ldblquote I\rquote m sorry, kid.\rdblquote  What else was there to say?\par
\ldblquote I keep thinking--maybe something has turned up.\rdblquote\par
Norris moved in close and spoke into Baley\rquote s ear. \ldblquote Someone\rquote s got to stop this sort of thing. They\rquote re going to move out Chenlow now.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Haven\rquote t you heard?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, I haven\rquote t. Damn it, he\rquote s a C-3. He\rquote s got ten years behind him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I grant that. But a machine with legs can do his work. Who\rquote s next?\rdblquote\par
Young Vince Barrett was oblivious to the whispers. He said out of the depths of his own thinking, \ldblquote Mr. Baley?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, Vince?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You know what they say? They say Lynane Millane, the subethenics dancer, is really a robot.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s silly.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Is it? They say they can make robots look just like humans; with a special plastic skin, sort of.\rdblquote\par
Baley thought guiltily of R. Daneel and found no words. He shook his head.\par
The boy said, \ldblquote Do you suppose anyone will mind if I just walk around. It makes me feel better to see the old place.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Go ahead, kid.\rdblquote\par
The youngster wandered off. Baley and Norris watched him go.\par
Norris said, \ldblquote It looks as though the Medievalists are right.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You mean back to the soil? Is that it, Phil?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No. I mean about the robots. Back to the soil. Huh! Old Earth has an unlimited future. We don\rquote t need robots, that\rquote s all.\rdblquote\par
Baley muttered, \ldblquote Eight billion people and the uranium running out! What\rquote s unlimited about it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What if the uranium does run out. We\rquote ll import it. Or we\rquote ll discover other nuclear processes. There\rquote s no way you can stop mankind, Lije. You\rquote ve got to be optimistic about it and have faith in the old human brain. Our greatest resource is ingenuity and we\rquote ll never run out of that, Lije.\rdblquote\par
He was fairly started now. He went on, \ldblquote For one thing, we can use sunpower and that\rquote s good for billions of years. We can build space stations inside Mercury\rquote s orbit to act as energy accumulators. We\rquote ll transmit energy to Earth by direct beam.\rdblquote\par
This project was not new to Baley. The speculative fringe of science had been playing with the notion for a hundred and fifty years at least. What was holding it up was the impossibility so far of projecting a beam tight enough to reach fifty million miles without dispersal to uselessness. Baley said as much.\par
Norris said, \ldblquote When it\rquote s necessary, it\rquote ll be done. Why worry?\rdblquote\par
Baley had the picture of an Earth of unlimited energy. Population could continue to increase. The yeast farms could expand, hydroponic culture intensify. Energy was the only thing indispensable. The raw minerals could be brought in from the uninhabited rocks of the System. If ever water became a bottleneck, more could be brought in from the moons of Jupiter. Hell, the oceans could be frozen and dragged out into Space where they could circle Earth as moonlets of ice. There they would be, always available for use, while the ocean bottoms would represent more land for exploitation, more room to live. Even carbon and oxygen could be maintained and increased on Earth through utilization of the methane atmosphere of Titan and the frozen oxygen of Umbriel.\par
Earth\rquote s population could reach a trillion or two. Why not? There was a time when the current population of eight billion would have been viewed as impossible. There was a time when a population of a single billion would have been unthinkable. There had always been prophets of Malthusian doom in every generation since Medieval times and they had always proven wrong.\par
But what would Fastolfe say? A world of a trillion? Surely! But they would be dependent on imported air and water and upon an energy supply from complicated storehouses fifty million miles away. How incredibly unstable that would be. Earth would be, and remain, a feather\rquote s weight away from complete catastrophe at the slightest failure of any part of the System-wide mechanism.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote I think it would be easier to ship off some of the surplus population, myself.\rdblquote  It was more an answer to the picture he had himself conjured up than to anything Norris had said.\par
\ldblquote Who\rquote d have us?\rdblquote  said Norris with a bitter lightness.\par
\ldblquote Any uninhabited planet.\rdblquote\par
Norris rose, patted Baley on the shoulder. \ldblquote Lije, you eat your chicken, and recover. You must be living on knockout pills.\rdblquote  He left, chuckling.\par
Baley watched him leave with a humorless twist to his mouth. Norris would spread the news and it would be weeks before the humor boys of the office (every office has them) would lay off. But at least it got him off the subject of young Vince, of robots, of declassification.\par
He sighed as he put a fork into the now cold and somewhat stringy chicken.\par
Baley finished the last of the yeast-nut and it was only then that R. Daneel left his own desk (assigned him that morning) and approached.\par
Baley eyed him uncomfortably. \ldblquote Well?\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote The Commissioner is not in his office and it is not known when he\rquote ll be back. I\rquote ve told R. Sammy we will use it and that he is to allow no one but the Commissioner to enter.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What are we going to use it for?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Greater privacy. Surely you agree that we must plan our next move. After all, you do not intend to abandon the investigation, do you?\rdblquote\par
That was precisely what Baley most longed to do, but obviously, he could not say so. He rose and led the way to Enderby\rquote s office.\par
Once in the office, Baley said, \ldblquote All right, Daneel. What is it?\rdblquote  The robot said, \ldblquote Partner Elijah, since last night, you are not yourself. There is a definite alteration in your mental aura.\rdblquote\par
A horrible thought sprang full-grown into Baley\rquote s mind. He cried, \ldblquote Are you telepathic?\rdblquote\par
It was not a possibility he would have considered at a less disturbed moment.\par
\ldblquote No. Of course not,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel.\par
Baley\rquote s panic ebbed. He said, \ldblquote Then what the devil do you mean by talking about my mental aura?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It is merely an expression I use to describe a sensation that you do not share with me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What sensation?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It is difficult to explain, Elijah. You will recall that I was originally designed to study human psychology for our people back in Spacetown.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, I know. You were adjusted to detective work by the simple installation of a justice-desire circuit.\rdblquote  Baley did not try to keep the sarcasm out of his voice.\par
\ldblquote Exactly, Elijah. But my original design remains essentially unaltered. I was constructed for the purpose of cerebroanalysis.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote For analyzing brain waves?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why, yes. It can be done by field-measurements without the necessity of direct electrode contact, if the proper receiver exists. My mind is such a receiver. Is that principle not applied on Earth?\rdblquote\par
Baley didn\rquote t know. He ignored the question and said, cautiously, \ldblquote If you measure the brain waves, what do you get out of it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not thoughts, Elijah. I get a glimpse of emotion and most of all, I can analyze temperament, the underlying drives and attitudes of a man. For instance, it was I who was able to ascertain that Commissioner Enderby was incapable of killing a man under the circumstances prevailing at the time of the murder.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And they eliminated him as a suspect on your say-so.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes. It was safe enough to do so. I am a very delicate machine in that respect.\rdblquote\par
Again a thought struck Baley. \ldblquote Wait! Commissioner Enderby didn\rquote t know he was being cerebroanalyzed, did he?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote There was no necessity of hurting his feelings.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I mean you just stood there and looked at him. No machinery. No electrodes. No needles and graphs.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Certainly not. I am a self-contained unit.\rdblquote\par
Baley bit his lower lip in anger and chagrin. It had been the one remaining inconsistency, the one loophole through which a forlorn stab might yet be made in an attempt to pin the crime on Spacetown.\par
R. Daneel had stated that the Commissioner had been cerebroanalyzed and one hour later the Commissioner himself had, with apparent candor, denied any knowledge of the term. Certainly no man could have undergone the shattering experience of electroencephalographic measurements by electrode and graph under the suspicion of murder without an unmistakable impression of what cerebroanalysis must be.\par
But now that discrepancy had evaporated. The Commissioner had been cerebroanalyzed and had never known it. R. Daneel told the truth; so had the Commissioner.\par
\ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  said Baley, sharply, \ldblquote what does cerebroanahysis tell you about me?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You are disturbed.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s a great discovery, isn\rquote t it? Of course, I\rquote m disturbed.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Specifically, though, your disturbance is due to a clash between motivations within you. On the one hand your devotion to the principles of your profession urges you to look deeply into this conspiracy of Earthmen who lay siege to us last night. Another motivation, equally strong, forces you in the opposite direction. This much is clearly written in the electric field of your cerebral cells.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote My cerebral cells, nuts,\rdblquote  said Baley, feverishly. \ldblquote Look, I\rquote ll tell you why there\rquote s no point in investigating your so-called conspiracy. It has nothing to do with the murder. I thought it might have. I\rquote ll admit that. Yesterday in the kitchen, I thought we were in danger. But what happened? They followed us out, were quickly lost on the strips, and that was that. That was not the action of well-organized and desperate men.\par
\ldblquote My own son found out where we were staying easily enough. He called the Department. He didn\rquote t even have to identify himself. Our precious conspirators could have done the same if they had really wanted to hurt us.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Didn\rquote t they?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Obviously not. If they had wanted riots, they could have started one at the shoe counter, and yet they backed out tamely enough before one man and a blaster. One robot, and a blaster which they must have known you would be unable to fire once they recognized what you were. They\rquote re Medievalists. They\rquote re harmless crackpots. You wouldn\rquote t know that, but I should have. And I would have, if it weren\rquote t for the fact that this whole business has me thinking in--in foolish melodramatic terms.\par
\ldblquote I tell you I know the type of people that become Medievalists. They\rquote re soft, dreamy people who find life too hard for them here and get lost in an ideal world of the past that never really existed. If you could cerebroanalyze a movement as you do an individual, you would find they are no more capable of murder than Julius Enderby himself.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said slowly, \ldblquote I cannot accept your statements at face value.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What do you mean?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Your conversion to this view is too sudden. There are certain discrepancies, too. You arranged the appointment with Dr. Gerrigel hours before the evening meal. You did not know of my food sac then and could not have suspected me as the murderer. Why did you call him, then?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I suspected you even then.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And last night you spoke as you slept.\rdblquote  Baley\rquote s eyes widened. \ldblquote What did I say?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Merely the one word \lquote Jessie\rquote  several times repeated. I believe you were referring to your wife.\rdblquote\par
Baley let his tight muscles loosen. He said, shakily, \ldblquote I had a nightmare. Do you know what that is?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I do not know by personal experience, of course. The dictionary definition has it that it is a bad dream.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And do you know what a dream is?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Again, the dictionary definition only. It is an illusion of reality experienced during the temporary suspension of conscious thought which you call sleep.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right. I\rquote ll buy that. An illusion. Sometimes the illusions can seem damned real. Well, I dreamed my wife was in danger. It\rquote s the sort of dream people often have. I called her name. That happens under such circumstances, too. You can take my word for it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I am only too glad to do so. But it brings up a thought. How did Jessie find out I was a robot?\rdblquote\par
Baley\rquote s forehead went moist again. \ldblquote We\rquote re not going into that again, are we? The rumor--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I am sorry to interrupt, partner Elijah, but there is no rumor. If there were, the City would be alive with unrest today. I have checked reports coming into the Department and this is not so. There simply is no rumor. Therefore, how did your wife find out?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Jehoshaphat! What are you trying to say? Do you think my wife is one of the members of--of ...\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, Elijah.\rdblquote\par
Baley gripped his hands together tightly. \ldblquote Well, she isn\rquote t, and we won\rquote t discuss that point any further.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote This is not like you, Elijah. In the course of duty, you accused me of murder twice.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And is this your way of getting even?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I am not sure I understand what you mean by the phrase. Certainly, I approve your readiness to suspect me. You had your reasons. They were wrong, but they might easily have been right. Equally strong evidence points to your wife.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote As a murderess? Why, damn you, Jessie wouldn\rquote t hurt her worst enemy. She couldn\rquote t set foot outside the City. She couldn\rquote t ...\rdblquote  --Why, if you were flesh and blood I\rquote d--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I merely say that she is a member of the conspiracy. I say that she should be questioned.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not on your life. Not on whatever it is you call your life. Now, listen to me. The Medievalists aren\rquote t after our blood. It\rquote s not the way they do things. But they are trying to get you out of the City. That much is obvious. And they\rquote re trying to do it by a kind of psychological attack. They\rquote re trying to make life unpleasant for you and for me, since I\rquote m with you. They could easily have found out Jessie was my wife, and it was an obvious move for them to let the news leak to her. She\rquote s like any other human being. She doesn\rquote t like robots. She wouldn\rquote t want me to associate with one, especially if she thought it involved danger, and surely they would imply that. I tell you it worked. She begged all night to have me abandon the case or to get you out of the City somehow.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Presumably,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel, \ldblquote you have a very strong urge to protect your wife against questioning. It seems obvious to me that you are constructing this line of argument without really believing it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What the hell do you think you are?\rdblquote  ground out Baley. \ldblquote You\rquote re not a detective. You\rquote re a cerebroanalysis machine like the electroencephalographs we have in this building. You\rquote ve got arms, legs, a head, and can talk, but you\rquote re not one inch more than that machine. Putting a lousy circuit into you doesn\rquote t make you a detective, so what do you know? You keep your mouth shut, and let me do the figuring out.\rdblquote\par
The robot said quietly, \ldblquote I think it would be better if you lowered your voice, Elijah. Granted that I am not a detective in the sense that you are, I would still like to bring one small item to your attention.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m not interested in listening.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Please do. If I am wrong, you will tell me so, and it will do no harm. It is only this. Last night you left our room to call Jessie by corridor phone. I suggested that your son go in your place. You told me it was not the custom among Earthmen for a father to send his son into danger. Is it then the custom for a mother to do so?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, of cour--\rdblquote  began Baley, and stopped.\par
\ldblquote You see my point,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel. \ldblquote Ordinarily, if Jessie feared for your safety and wished to warn you, she would risk her own life, not send her son. The fact that she did send Bentley could only mean that she felt that he would be safe while she herself would not. If the conspiracy consisted of people unknown to Jessie, that would not be the case, or at least she would have no reason to think it to be the case. On the other hand, if she were a member of the conspiracy, she would know, she would know, Elijah, that she would be watched for and recognized, whereas Bentley might get through unnoticed.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Wait now,\rdblquote  said Baley, sick at heart, \ldblquote that\rquote s feather-fine reasoning.\rdblquote\par
There was no need to wait. The signal on the Commissioner\rquote s desk was flickering madly. R. Daneel waited for Baley to answer, but the latter could only stare at it helplessly. The robot closed contact.\par
\ldblquote What is it?\rdblquote\par
R. Sammy\rquote s slurring voice said, \ldblquote There is a lady here who wishes to see Lije. I told her he was busy, but she will not go away. She says her name is Jessie.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Let her in,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel calmly, and his brown eyes rose unemotionally to meet the panicky glare of Baley\rquote s.\par
\pard\keepn\pagebb\s1\sb240\sa60\qc\kerning32\b\f2\fs32 Chapter 14\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa240\qc\kerning0\i\fs28 POWER OF A NAME\par
\pard\fi216\qj\b0\i0\f0\fs24 Baley remained standing in a tetany of shock, as Jessie ran to him, seizing his shoulders, huddling close.\par
His pale lips formed the word, \ldblquote Bentley?\rdblquote\par
She looked at him and shook her head, her brown hair flying with the force of her motion. \ldblquote He\rquote s all right.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, then ...\rdblquote\par
Jessie said through a sudden torrent of sobs, in a low voice that could scarcely be made out, \ldblquote I can\rquote t go on, Lije. I can\rquote t. I can\rquote t sleep or eat. I\rquote ve got to tell you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Don\rquote t say anything,\rdblquote  Baley said in anguish. \ldblquote For God\rquote s sake, Jessie, not now.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I must. I\rquote ve done a terrible thing. Such a terrible thing. Oh, Lije ...\rdblquote  She lapsed into incoherence.\par
Baley said, hopelessly, \ldblquote We\rquote re not alone, Jessie.\rdblquote\par
She looked up and stared at R. Daneel with no signs of recognition. The tears in which her eyes were swimming might easily be refracting the robot into a featureless blur.\par
R. Daneel said in a low murmur, \ldblquote Good afternoon, Jessie.\rdblquote\par
She gasped. \ldblquote Is it the--the robot?\rdblquote\par
She dashed the back of her hand across her eyes and stepped out of Baley\rquote s encircling right arm. She breathed deeply and, for a moment, a tremulous smile wavered on her lips. \ldblquote It is you, isn\rquote t it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, Jessie.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You don\rquote t mind being called a robot?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, Jessie. It is what I am.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And I don\rquote t mind being called a fool and an idiot and a--a subversive agent, because it\rquote s what I am.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Jessie!\rdblquote  groaned Baley.\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s no use, Lije,\rdblquote  she said. \ldblquote He might as well know if he\rquote s your partner. I can\rquote t live with it any more. I\rquote ve had such a time since yesterday. I don\rquote t care if I go to jail. I don\rquote t care if they send me down to the lowest levels and make me live on raw yeast and water. I don\rquote t care if ... You won\rquote t let them, will you, Lije? Don\rquote t let them do anything to me. I\rquote m fuh--frightened.\rdblquote\par
Baley patted her shoulder and let her cry.\par
He said to R. Daneel. \ldblquote She isn\rquote t well. We can\rquote t keep her here. What time is it?\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said without any visible signs of consulting a timepiece, \ldblquote Fourteen-forty-five.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The Commissioner could be back any minute. Look, commandeer a squad car and we can talk about this in the motorway.\rdblquote\par
Jessie\rquote s head jerked upright. \ldblquote The motorway? Oh, no, Lije.\rdblquote\par
He said, in as soothing a tone as he could manage, \ldblquote Now, Jessie, don\rquote t be superstitious. You can\rquote t go on the expressway the way you are. Be a good girl and calm down or we won\rquote t even be able to go through the common room. I\rquote ll get you some water.\rdblquote\par
She wiped her face with a damp handkerchief and said drearily, \ldblquote Oh, look at my makeup.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Don\rquote t worry about your makeup,\rdblquote  said Baley. \ldblquote Daneel, what about the squad car?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s waiting for us now, partner Elijah.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Come on, Jessie.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Wait. Wait just a minute, Lije. I\rquote ve got to do something to my face.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It doesn\rquote t matter now.\rdblquote\par
But she twisted away. \ldblquote Please. I can\rquote t go through the common room like this. I won\rquote t take a second.\rdblquote\par
The man and the robot waited, the man with little jerky clenchings of his fists, the robot impassively.\par
Jessie rummaged through her purse for the necessary equipment. (If there were one thing, Baley had once said solemnly, that had resisted mechanical improvement since Medieval times, it was a woman\rquote s purse. Even the substitution of magnetic clotures for metal clasps had not proven successful.) Jessie pulled out a small mirror and the silver-cased cosmetokit that Baley had bought her on the occasion of three birthdays before.\par
The cosmetokit had several orifices and she used each in turn. All but the last spray were invisible. She used them with that fineness of touch and delicacy of control that seems to be the birthright of women even at times of the greatest stress.\par
The base went on first in a smooth even layer that removed all shininess and roughness from the skin and left it with the faintly golden glow which long experience had taught Jessie was just the shade most suited to the natural coloring of her hair and eyes. Then the touch of tan along the forehead and chin, a gentle brush of rouge on either cheek, tracing back to the angle of the jaw; and a delicate drift of blue on the upper eyelids and along the earlobes. Finally there was the application of the smooth carmine to the lips. That involved the one visible spray, a faintly pink mist that glistened liquidly in air, but dried and deepened richly on contact with the lips.\par
\ldblquote There,\rdblquote  said Jessie, with several swift pats at her hair and a look of deep dissatisfaction. \ldblquote I suppose that will do.\rdblquote\par
The process had taken more than the promised second, but less than fifteen seconds. Nevertheless, it had seemed interminable to Baley.\par
\ldblquote Come,\rdblquote  he said.\par
She barely had time to return the cosmetokit to the purse before he had pushed her through the door.\par
The eerie silence of the motorway lay thick on either side.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote All right, Jessie.\rdblquote\par
The impassivity that had covered Jessie\rquote s face since they first left the Commissioner\rquote s office showed signs of cracking. She looked at her husband and at Daneel with a helpless silence.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Get it over with, Jessie. Please. Have you committed a crime? An actual crime?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote A crime?\rdblquote  She shook her head uncertainly.\par
\ldblquote Now hold on to yourself. No hysterics. Just say yes or no, Jessie. Have you--\rdblquote  he hesitated a trifle, \ldblquote killed anyone?\rdblquote\par
The look on Jessie\rquote s face was promptly transmuted to indignation. \ldblquote Why, Lije Baley!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes or no, Jessie.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, of course not.\rdblquote\par
The hard knot in Baley\rquote s stomach softened perceptibly. \ldblquote Have you stolen anything? Falsified ration data? Assaulted anyone? Destroyed property? Speak up, Jessie.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I haven\rquote t done anything--anything specific. I didn\rquote t mean anything like that.\rdblquote  She looked over her shoulder. \ldblquote Lije, do we have to stay down here?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Right here until this is over. Now, start at the beginning. What did you come to tell us?\rdblquote  Over Jessie\rquote s bowed head, Baley\rquote s eyes met R. Daneel\rquote s.\par
Jessie spoke in a soft voice that gained in strength and articulateness as she went on.\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s these people, these Medievalists; you know, Lije. They\rquote re always around, always talking. Even in the old days when I was an assistant dietitian, it was like that. Remember Elizabeth Thornbowe? She was a Medievalist. She was always talking about how all our troubles came from the City and how things were better before the Cities started.\par
\ldblquote I used to ask her how she was so sure that was so, especially after you and I met, Lije (remember the talks we used to have), and then she would quote from those small book-reels that are always floating around. You know, like Shame of the Cities that the fellow wrote. I don\rquote t remember his name.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, absently, \ldblquote Ogninsky.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, only most of them were lots worse. Then, when I married you, she was really sarcastic. She said, \lquote I suppose you\rquote re going to be a real City woman now that you\rquote ve married a policeman.\rquote  After that, she didn\rquote t talk to me much and then I quit the job and that was that. Lots of things she used to say were just to shock me, I think, or to make herself look mysterious and glamorous. She was an old maid, you know; never got married till the day she died. Lots of those Medievalists don\rquote t fit in, one way or another. Remember, you once said, Lije, that people sometimes mistake their own shortcomings for those of society and want to fix the Cities because they don\rquote t know how to fix themselves.\rdblquote\par
Baley remembered, and his words now sounded flip and superficial in his own ears. He said, gently, \ldblquote Keep to the point, Jessie.\rdblquote\par
She went on, \ldblquote Anyway, Lizzy was always talking about how there\rquote d come a day and people had to get together. She said it was all the fault of the Spacers because they wanted to keep Earth weak and decadent. That was one of her favorite words, \lquote decadent.\rquote  She\rquote d look at the menus I\rquote d prepare for the next week and sniff and say, \lquote Decadent, decadent.\rquote  Jane Myers used to imitate her in the cook room and we\rquote d die laughing. She said, Elizabeth did, that someday we were going to break up the Cities and go back to the soil and have an accounting with the Spacers who were trying to tie us forever to the Cities by forcing robots on us. Only she never called them robots. She used to say \lquote soulless monster-machines,\rquote  if you\rquote ll excuse the expression, Daneel.\rdblquote\par
The robot said, \ldblquote I am not aware of the significance of the adjective you used, Jessie, but in any case, the expression is excused. Please go on.\rdblquote\par
Baley stirred restlessly. It was that way with Jessie. No emergency, H no crisis could make her tell a story in any way but her own circuitous one.\par
She said, \ldblquote Elizabeth always tried to talk as though there were lots of people in it with her. She would say, \lquote At the last meeting,\rquote  and then stop and look at me sort of half proud and half scared as though she wanted me to ask about it so she could look important, and yet scared I might get her in trouble. Of course, I never asked her. I wouldn\rquote t give her the satisfaction.\par
\ldblquote Anyway, after I married you, Lije, it was all over, until--\rdblquote  She stopped.\par
\ldblquote Go on, Jessie,\rdblquote  said Baley.\par
\ldblquote You remember, Lije, that argument we had? About Jezebel, I mean?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What about it?\rdblquote  It took a second or two for Baley to remember that it was Jessie\rquote s own name, and not a reference to another woman.\par
He turned to R. Daneel in an automatically defensive explanation.\par
\ldblquote Jessie\rquote s full name is Jezebel. She is not fond of it and doesn\rquote t use it.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel nodded gravely and Baley thought: Jehoshaphat, why waste worry on him?\par
\ldblquote It bothered me a lot, Lije,\rdblquote  Jessie said. \ldblquote It really did. I guess it was silly, but I kept thinking and thinking about what you said. I mean about your saying that Jezebel was only a conservative who fought for the ways of her ancestors against the strange ways the newcomers had brought. After all, I was Jezebel and I always ...\rdblquote\par
She groped for a word and Baley supplied it. \ldblquote Identified yourself?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote  But she shook her head almost immediately and looked away. \ldblquote Not really, of course. Not literally. The way I thought she was, you know. I wasn\rquote t like that.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I know that, Jessie. Don\rquote t be foolish.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But still I thought of her a lot and, somehow, I got to thinking, it\rquote s just the same now as it was then. I mean, we Earth people had our old ways and here were the Spacers coming in with a lot of new ways and trying to encourage the new ways we had stumbled into ourselves and maybe the Medievalists were right. Maybe we should go back to our old, good ways. So I went back and found Elizabeth.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes. Go on.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote She said she didn\rquote t know what I was talking about and besides I was a cop\rquote s wife. I said that had nothing to do with it and finally she said, well, she\rquote d speak to somebody, and then about a month later she came to me and said it was all right and I joined and I\rquote ve been at meetings ever since.\rdblquote\par
Baley looked at her sadly. \ldblquote And you never told me?\rdblquote\par
Jessie\rquote s voice trembled. \ldblquote I\rquote m sorry, Lije.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, that won\rquote t help. Being sorry, I mean. I want to know about the meetings. In the first place, where were they held?\rdblquote\par
A sense of detachment was creeping over him, a numbing of emotions. What he had tried not to believe was so, was openly so, was unmistakably so. In a sense, it was a relief to have the uncertainty over.\par
She said, \ldblquote Down here.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Down here? You mean on this spot? What do you mean?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Here in the motorway. That\rquote s why I didn\rquote t want to come down here. It was a wonderful place to meet, though. We\rquote d get together--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How many?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m not sure. About sixty or seventy. It was just a sort of local branch. There\rquote d be folding chairs and some refreshments and someone would make a speech, mostly about how wonderful life was in the old days and how someday we\rquote d do away with the monsters, the robots, that is, and the Spacers, too. The speeches were sort of dull really, because they were all the same. We just endured them. Mostly, it was the fun of getting together and feeling important. We would pledge ourselves to oaths and there\rquote d be secret ways we could greet each other on the outside.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Weren\rquote t you ever interrupted? No squad cars or fire engines passed?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No. Never.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel interrupted, \ldblquote Is that unusual, Elijah?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Maybe not,\rdblquote  Baley answered thoughtfully. \ldblquote There are some side passages that are practically never used. It\rquote s quite a trick, knowing which they are, though. Is that all you did at the meetings, Jessie? Make speeches and play at conspiracy?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s about all. And sing songs, sometimes. And of course, refreshments. Not much. Sandwiches, usually, and juice.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote In that case,\rdblquote  he said, almost brutally, \ldblquote what\rquote s bothering you now?\rdblquote\par
Jessie winced. \ldblquote You\rquote re angry.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Please,\rdblquote  said Baley, with iron patience, \ldblquote answer my question. If it were all as harmless as that, why have you been in such a panic for the last day and a half?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I thought they would hurt you, Lije. For heaven\rquote s sake, why do you act as though you don\rquote t understand? I\rquote ve explained it to you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, you haven\rquote t. Not yet. You\rquote ve told me about a harmless little secret kaffee-klatsch you belonged to. Did they ever hold open demonstrations? Did they ever destroy robots? Start riots? Kill people?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Never! Lije, I wouldn\rquote t do any of those things. I wouldn\rquote t stay a member if they tried it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, then, why do you say you\rquote ve done a terrible thing? Why do you expect to be sent to jail?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well ... Well, they used to talk about someday when they\rquote d put pressure on the government. We were supposed to get organized and then afterward there would be huge strikes and work stoppages. We could force the government to ban all robots and make the Spacers go back where they came from. I thought it was just talk and then, this thing started; about you and Daneel, I mean. Then they said, \lquote Now we\rquote ll see action,\rquote  and \lquote We\rquote re going to make an example of them and put a stop to the robot invasion right now.\rquote  Right there in Personal they said it, not knowing it was you they were talking about. But I knew. Right away.\rdblquote\par
Her voice broke.\par
Baley softened. \ldblquote Come on, Jessie. It was all nothing. It was just talk. You can see for yourself that nothing has happened.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I was so--so suh--scared. And I thought: I\rquote m part of it. If there were going to be killing and destruction, you might be killed and Bentley and somehow it would be all muh--my fault for taking part in it, and I ought to be sent to jail.\rdblquote\par
Baley let her sob herself out. He put his arm about her shoulder and stared tight-lipped at R. Daneel, who gazed calmly back.\par
He said, \ldblquote Now, I want you to think, Jessie. Who was the head of your group?\rdblquote\par
She was quieter now, patting the corners of her eyes with a handkerchief. \ldblquote A man called Joseph Klemin was the leader, but he wasn\rquote t really anybody. He wasn\rquote t more than five feet four inches tall and I think he was terribly henpecked at home. I don\rquote t think there\rquote s any harm in him. You aren\rquote t going to arrest him, are you, Lije? On my say-so?\rdblquote  She looked guiltily troubled.\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m not arresting anyone just yet. How did Klemin get his instructions?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t know.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Did any strangers come to meeting? You know what I mean: big shots from Central Headquarters?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Sometimes people would come to make speeches. That wasn\rquote t very often, maybe twice a year or so.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Can you name them?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No. They were always just introduced as \lquote one of us\rquote  or \lquote a friend from Jackson Heights\rquote  or wherever.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I see. Daneel!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, Elijah,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel.\par
\ldblquote Describe the men you think you\rquote ve tabbed. We\rquote ll see if Jessie can recognize them.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel went through the list with clinical exactness. Jessie listened with an expression of dismay as the categories of physical measurements lengthened and shook her head with increasing firmness.\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s no use. It\rquote s no use,\rdblquote  she cried. \ldblquote How can I remember? I can\rquote t remember how any of them looked. I can\rquote t--\rdblquote\par
She stopped, and seemed to consider. Then she said, \ldblquote Did you say one of them was a yeast farmer?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Francis Clousarr,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel, \ldblquote is an employee at New York Yeast.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, you know, once a man was making a speech and I happened to be sitting in the first row and I kept getting a whiff, just a whiff, really, of raw yeast smell. You know what I mean. The only reason that I remember is that I had an upset stomach that day and the smell kept making me sick. I had to stand up and move to the back and of course I couldn\rquote t explain what was wrong. It was so embarrassing. Maybe that\rquote s the man you\rquote re speaking of. After all, when you work with yeast all the time, the odor gets to stick to your clothes.\rdblquote  She wrinkled her nose.\par
\ldblquote You don\rquote t remember what he looked like?\rdblquote  said Baley.\par
\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  she replied, with decision.\par
\ldblquote All right, then. Look, Jessie, I\rquote m going to take you to your mother\rquote s. Bentley will stay with you, and none of you will leave the Section. Ben can stay away from school and I\rquote ll arrange to have meals sent in and the corridors around the apartment watched by the police.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What about you?\rdblquote  quavered Jessie.\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ll be in no danger.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But how long?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t know. Maybe just a day or two.\rdblquote  The words sounded hollow even to himself.\par
They were back in the motorway, Baley and R. Daneel, alone now. Baley\rquote s expression was dark with thought.\par
\ldblquote It would seem to me,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote that we are faced with an organization built up on two levels. First, a ground level with no specific program, designed only to supply mass support for an eventual coup. Secondly, a much smaller elite dedicated to a well-planned program of action. It is this elite we must find. The comic-opera groups that Jessie spoke of can be ignored.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All this,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel, \ldblquote follows, perhaps, if we can take Jessie\rquote s story at face value.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I think,\rdblquote  Baley said stiffly, \ldblquote that Jessie\rquote s story can be accepted as completely true.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote So it would seem,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel. \ldblquote There is nothing about her cerebra-impulses that would indicate a pathological addiction to lying.\rdblquote\par
Baley turned an offended look upon the robot. \ldblquote I should say not. And there will be no necessity to mention her name in our reports. Do you understand that?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If you wish it so, partner Elijah,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel calmly, \ldblquote but our report will then be neither complete nor accurate.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Well, maybe so, but no real harm will be done. She has come to us with whatever information she had and to mention her name will only put her in the police records. I do not want that to happen.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote In that case, certainly not, provided we are certain that nothing more remains to be found out.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Nothing remains as far as she\rquote s concerned. My guarantee.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Could you then explain why the word, Jezebel, the mere sound of a name, should lead her to abandon previous convictions and assume a new set? The motivation seems obscure.\rdblquote\par
They were traveling slowly through the curving, empty tunnel.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote It is hard to explain. Jezebel is a rare name. It belonged once to a woman of very bad reputation. My wife treasured that fact. It gave her a vicarious feeling of wickedness and compensated for a life that was uniformly proper.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why should a law-abiding woman wish to feel wicked?\rdblquote\par
Baley almost smiled. \ldblquote Women are women, Daneel. Anyway, I did a very foolish thing. In a moment of irritation, I insisted that the historic Jezebel was not particularly wicked and was, if anything, a good wife. I\rquote ve regretted that ever since.\par
\ldblquote It turned out,\rdblquote  he went on, \ldblquote that I had made Jessie bitterly unhappy. I had spoiled something for her that couldn\rquote t be replaced. I suppose what followed was her way of revenge. I imagine she wished to punish me by engaging in activity of which she knew I wouldn\rquote t approve. I don\rquote t say the wish was a conscious one.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Can a wish be anything but conscious? Is that not a contradiction in terms?\rdblquote\par
Baley stared at R Daneel and despaired at attempting to explain the unconscious mind. He said, instead, \ldblquote Besides that, the Bible has a great influence on human thought and emotion.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What is the Bible?\rdblquote\par
For a moment Baley was surprised, and then was surprised at himself for having felt surprised. The Spacers, he knew, lived under a thoroughly mechanistic personal philosophy, and R. Daneel could know only what the Spacers knew; no more.\par
He said, curtly, \ldblquote It is the sacred book of about half of Earth\rquote s population.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I do not grasp the meaning here of the adjective.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I mean that it is highly regarded. Various portions of it, when properly interpreted, contain a code of behavior which many men consider best suited to the ultimate happiness of mankind.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel seemed to consider that. \ldblquote Is this code incorporated into your laws?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m afraid not. The code doesn\rquote t lend itself to legal enforcement. It must be obeyed spontaneously by each individual out of a longing to do so. It is in a sense higher than any law can be.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Higher than law? Is that not a contradiction in terms?\rdblquote\par
Baley smiled wryly. \ldblquote Shall I quote a portion of the Bible for you? Would you be curious to hear it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Please do.\rdblquote\par
Baley let the car slow to a halt and for a few moments sat with his eyes closed, remembering. He would have liked to use the sonorous Middle English of the Medieval Bible, but to R. Daneel, Middle English would be gibberish.\par
He began, speaking almost casually in the words of the Modern Revision, as though he were telling a story of contemporary life, instead of dredging a tale out of Man\rquote s dimmest past:\par
\ldblquote Jesus went to the mount of Olives, and at dawn returned to the temple. All the people came to him, and he sat down and preached to them. And the scribes and Pharisees brought to him a woman caught in adultery, and when they had placed her before him, they said to him, \lquote Master, this woman was caught in adultery, in the very act. Now Moses, in the law, commanded us to stone such offenders. What do you say?\rquote\par
\ldblquote They said this, hoping to trap him, that they might have grounds for accusations against him. But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground, as though he had not heard them. But when they continued asking him, he stood up and said to them, \lquote He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her.\rquote\par
\ldblquote And again he stooped down and wrote on the ground. And those that heard this, being convicted by their own conscience, went away one by one, beginning with the oldest, down to the last: and Jesus was left alone, with the woman standing before him. When Jesus stood up and saw no one but the woman, he said to her, \lquote Woman, where are your accusers? Has no one condemned you?\rquote\par
\ldblquote She said, \lquote No one, Lord.\rquote\par
\ldblquote And Jesus said to her, \lquote Nor do I condemn you. Go, and sin no more.\rquote  \rdblquote\par
R. Daneel listened attentively. He said, \ldblquote What is adultery?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That doesn\rquote t matter. It was a crime and at the time, the accepted punishment was stoning; that is, stones were thrown at the guilty one until she was killed.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And the woman was guilty?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote She was.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then why was she not stoned?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote None of the accusers felt he could after Jesus\rquote s statement. The story is meant to show that there is something even higher than the justice which you have been filled with. There is a human impulse known as mercy; a human act known as forgiveness.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I am not acquainted with those words, partner Elijah.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I know,\rdblquote  muttered Baley. \ldblquote I know.\rdblquote\par
He started the squad car with a jerk and let it tear forward savagely. He was pressed back against the cushions of the seat.\par
\ldblquote Where are we going?\rdblquote  asked R. Daneel.\par
\ldblquote To Yeast-town,\rdblquote  said Baley, \ldblquote to get the truth out of Francis Clousarr, conspirator.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You have a method for doing this, Elijah?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not I, exactly. But you have, Daneel. A simple one.\rdblquote\par
They sped onward.\par
\pard\keepn\pagebb\s1\sb240\sa60\qc\kerning32\b\f2\fs32 Chapter 15\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa240\qc\kerning0\i\fs28 ARREST OF A CONSPIRATOR\par
\pard\fi216\qj\b0\i0\f0\fs24 Baley could sense the vague aroma of Yeast-town growing stronger, more pervasive. He did not find it as unpleasant as some did; Jessie, for instance. He even liked it, rather. It had pleasant connotations.\par
Every time he smelled raw yeast, the alchemy of sense perception threw him more than three decades into the past. He was a ten-year-old again, visiting his Uncle Boris, who was a yeast farmer. Uncle Boris always had a little supply of yeast delectables: small cookies, chocolaty things filled with sweet liquid, hard confections in the shape of cats and dogs. Young as he was, he knew that Uncle Boris shouldn\rquote t really have had them to give away and he always ate them very quietly, sitting in a corner with his back to the center of the room. He would eat them quickly for fear of being caught.\par
They tasted all the better for that.\par
Poor Uncle Boris! He had an accident and died. They never told him exactly how, and he had cried bitterly because he thought Uncle Boris had been arrested for smuggling yeast out of the plant. He expected to be arrested and executed himself. Years later, he poked carefully through police files and found the truth. Uncle Boris had fallen beneath the treads of a transport. It was a disillusioning ending to a romantic myth.\par
Yet the myth would always arise in his mind, at least momentarily, at the whiff of raw yeast.\par
Yeast-town was not the official name of any part of New York City. It could be found in no gazetteer and on no official map. What was called Yeast-town in popular speech was, to the Post Office, merely the boroughs of Newark, New Brunswick, and Trenton. It was a broad strip across what was once Medieval New Jersey, dotted with residential areas, particularly in Newark Center and Trenton Center, but given over mostly to the many-layered farms in which a thousand varieties of yeast grew and multiplied.\par
One fifth of the City\rquote s population worked in the yeast farms; another fifth worked in the subsidiary industries. Beginning with the mountains of wood and coarse cellulose that were dragged into the City from the tangled forests of the Alleghenies, through the vats of acid that hydrolyzed it to glucose, the carloads of niter and phosphate rock that were the most important additives, down to the jars of organics supplied by the chemical laboratories-it all came to only one thing, yeast and more yeast.\par
Without yeast, six of Earth\rquote s eight billions would starve in a year. Baley felt cold at the thought. Three days before the possibility existed as deeply as it did now, but three days before it would never have occurred to him.\par
They whizzed out of the motorway through an exit on the Newark outskirts. The thinly populated avenues, flanked on either side by the featureless blocks that were the farms, offered little to act as a brake on their speed.\par
\ldblquote What time is it, Daneel?\rdblquote  asked Baley.\par
\ldblquote Sixteen-oh-five,\rdblquote  replied R. Daneel.\par
\ldblquote Then he\rquote ll be at work, if he\rquote s on day shift.\rdblquote\par
Baley parked the squad car in a delivery recess and froze the controls.\par
\ldblquote This is New York Yeast then, Elijah?\rdblquote  asked the robot.\par
\ldblquote Part of it,\rdblquote  said Baley.\par
They entered into a corridor flanked by a double row of offices. A receptionist at a bend in the corridor was instantly smiles. \ldblquote Whom do you wish to see?\rdblquote\par
Baley opened his wallet. \ldblquote Police. Is there a Francis Clousarr working for New York Yeast?\rdblquote\par
The girl looked perturbed. \ldblquote I can check.\rdblquote\par
She connected her switchboard through a line plainly marked \ldblquote Personnel,\rdblquote  and her lips moved slightly, though no sound could be heard.\par
Baley was no stranger to the throat phones that translated the small movements of the larynx into words. He said, \ldblquote Speak up, please. Let me hear you.\rdblquote\par
Her words became audible, but consisted only of, \ldblquote ... he says he\rquote s a policeman, sir.\rdblquote\par
A dark, well-dressed man came out a door. He had a thin mustache and his hairline was beginning to retreat. He smiled whitely, and said, \ldblquote I\rquote m Prescott of Personnel. What\rquote s the trouble, Officer?\rdblquote\par
Baley stared at him coldly and Prescott\rquote s smile grew strained.\par
Prescott said, \ldblquote I just don\rquote t want to upset the workers. They\rquote re touchy about the police.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Tough, isn\rquote t it? Is Clousarr in the building now?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, Officer.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Let\rquote s have a nod, then. And if he\rquote s gone when we get there, I\rquote ll be speaking to you again.\rdblquote\par
The other\rquote s smile was quite dead. He muttered, \ldblquote I\rquote ll get you a rod, Officer.\rdblquote\par
The guide rod was set for Department CG, Section 2. What that meant in factory terminology, Baley didn\rquote t know. He didn\rquote t have to. The rod was an inconspicuous thing which could be palmed in the hand. Its tip warmed gently when lined up in the direction for which it was set, cooled quickly when turned away. The warmth increased as the final goal was approached.\par
To an amateur, the guide rod was almost useless, with its quick little differences of heat content, but few City dwellers were amateurs at this particular game. One of the most popular and perennial of the games of childhood was hide-and-seek through the school-level corridors with the use of toy guide rods. (\ldblquote Hot or Not, Let Hot-Spot Spot. Hot-Spot Guide Rods Are Keen.\rdblquote )\par
Baley had found his way through hundreds of massive piles by guide rod, and he could follow the shortest course with one of them in his hand as though it had been mapped out for him.\par
When he stepped into a large and brilliantly lit room after ten minutes, the guide rod\rquote s tip was almost hot.\par
Baley said to the worker nearest the door, \ldblquote Francis Clousarr here?\rdblquote\par
The worker jerked his head. Baley walked in the indicated direction. The odor of yeast was sharply penetrating, despite the laboring air pumps whose humming made a steady background noise.\par
A man had risen at the other end of the room, and was taking off an apron. He was of moderate height, his face deeply lined despite his comparative youth, and his hair just beginning to grizzle. He had large, knobby hands which he wiped slowly on a celltex towel.\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m Francis Clousarr,\rdblquote  he said.\par
Baley looked briefly at R. Daneel. The robot nodded.\par
\ldblquote Okay,\rdblquote  said Baley. \ldblquote Anywhere here we can talk?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Maybe,\rdblquote  said Clousarr slowly, \ldblquote but it\rquote s just about the end of my shift. How about tomorrow?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Lots of hours between now and tomorrow. Let\rquote s make it now.\rdblquote  Baley opened his wallet and palmed it at the yeast farmer.\par
But Clousarr\rquote s hands did not waver in their somber wiping motions. He said, coolly, \ldblquote I don\rquote t know the system in the Police Department, but around here you get tight eating hours with no leeway. I eat at 15:00 to 17:45, or I don\rquote t eat.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s all right,\rdblquote  said Baley. \ldblquote I\rquote ll arrange to have your supper brought to you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, well,\rdblquote  said Clousarr, joylessly. \ldblquote Just like an aristocrat, or a C-class copper. What\rquote s next? Private bath?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You just answer questions, Clousarr,\rdblquote  said Baley, \ldblquote and save your big jokes for your girl friend. Where can we talk?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If you want to talk, how about the balance room? Suit yourself about that. Me, I\rquote ve got nothing to say.\rdblquote\par
Baley thumbed Clousarr into the balance room. It was square and antiseptically white, air-conditioned independently of the larger room (and more efficiently), and with its walls lined with delicate electronic balances, glassed off and manipulable by field forces only. Baley had used cheaper models in his college days. One make, which he recognized, could weigh a mere billion atoms.\par
Clousarr said, \ldblquote I don\rquote t expect anyone will be in here for a while.\rdblquote  Baley grunted, then turned to Daneel and said, \ldblquote Would you step out and have a meal sent up here? And if you don\rquote t mind, wait outside for it.\rdblquote\par
He watched R. Daneel leave, then said to Clousarr, \ldblquote You\rquote re a chemist?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m a zymologist, if you don\rquote t mind.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What\rquote s the difference?\rdblquote\par
Clousarr looked lofty. \ldblquote A chemist is a soup-pusher, a stink-operator.\par
A zymologist is a man who helps keep a few billion people alive. I\rquote m a yeast-culture specialist.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right,\rdblquote  said Baley.\par
But Clousarr went on, \ldblquote This laboratory keeps New York Yeast going. There isn\rquote t one day, not one damned hour, that we haven\rquote t got cultures of every strain of yeast in the company growing in our kettles. We check and adjust the food factor requirements. We make sure it\rquote s breeding true. We twist the genetics, start the new strains and weed them out, sort out their properties and mold them again.\par
\ldblquote When New Yorkers started getting strawberries out of season a couple of years back, those weren\rquote t strawberries, fella. Those were a special high-sugar yeast culture with true-bred color and just a dash of flavor additive. It was developed right here in this room.\par
\ldblquote Twenty years ago Saccharomyces olei Benedictae was just a scrub strain with a lousy taste of tallow and good for nothing. It still tastes of tallow, but its fat content has been pushed up from 15 per cent to 87 per cent. If you used the expressway today, just remember that it\rquote s greased strictly with S. 0. Benedictae, Strain AG-7. Developed right here in this room.\par
\ldblquote So don\rquote t call me a chemist. I\rquote m a zymologist.\rdblquote\par
Despite himself, Baley retreated before the fierce pride of the other. He said abruptly, \ldblquote Where were you last night between the hours of eighteen and twenty?\rdblquote\par
Clousarr shrugged. \ldblquote Walking. I like to take a little walk after dinner.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You visited friends? Or a subetheric?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No. Just walked.\rdblquote\par
Baley\rquote s lips tightened. A visit to the subetherics would have involved a notch in Clousarr\rquote s ration pack. A meeting with a friend would have involved naming a man or woman, and a cross check.\par
\ldblquote No one saw you, then?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Maybe someone did. I don\rquote t know. Not that I know of, though.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What about the night before last?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Same thing.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You have no alibi then for either night?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If I had done anything criminal, Officer, I\rquote d have one. What do I need an alibi for?\rdblquote\par
Baley didn\rquote t answer. He consulted his little book. \ldblquote You were up before the magistrate once. Inciting to riot.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right. One of the R things pushed past me and I tripped him up. Is that inciting to riot?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The court thought so. You were convicted and fined.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That ends it, doesn\rquote t it? Or do you want to fine me again?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Night before last, there was a near riot at a shoe department in the Bronx. You were seen there.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote By whom?\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote It was at mealtime for you here. Did you eat the evening meal night before last?\rdblquote\par
Clousarr hesitated, then shook his head. \ldblquote Upset stomach. Yeast gets you that way sometimes. Even an old-timer.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Last night, there was a near riot in Williamsburg and you were seen there.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote By whom?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Do you deny you were present on both occasions?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You\rquote re not giving me anything to deny. Exactly where did these things happen and who says he saw me?\rdblquote\par
Baley stared at the zymologist levelly. \ldblquote I think you know exactly what I\rquote m talking about. I think you\rquote re an important man in an unregistered Medievalist organization.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I can\rquote t stop you from thinking, Officer, but thinking isn\rquote t evidence. Maybe you know that.\rdblquote  Clousarr was grinning.\par
\ldblquote Maybe,\rdblquote  said Baley, his long face stony, \ldblquote I can get a little truth out of you right now.\rdblquote\par
Baley stepped to the door of the balance room and opened it. He said to R. Daneel, who was waiting stolidly outside, \ldblquote Has Clousarr\rquote s evening meal arrived?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It is coming now, Elijah.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Bring it in, will you, Daneel?\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel entered a moment later with a metal compartmented tray.\par
\ldblquote Put it down in front of Mr. Clousarr, Daneel,\rdblquote  said Baley. He sat down on one of the stools lining the balance wall, legs crossed, one shoe swinging rhythmically. He watched Clousarr edge stiffly away as R. Daneel placed the tray on a stool near the zymologist.\par
\ldblquote Mr. Clousarr,\rdblquote  said Baley. \ldblquote I want to introduce you to my partner, Daneel Olivaw.\rdblquote\par
Daneel put out his hand and said, \ldblquote How do you do, Francis.\rdblquote\par
Clousarr said nothing. He made no move to grasp Daneel\rquote s extended hand. Daneel maintained his position and Clousarr began to redden.\par
Baley said softly, \ldblquote You are being rude, Mr. Clousarr. Are you too proud to shake hands with a policeman?\rdblquote\par
Clousarr muttered, \ldblquote If you don\rquote t mind, I\rquote m hungry.\rdblquote  He unfolded a pocket fork out of a clasp knife he took from his pocket and sat down, eyes bent on his meal.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Daneel, I think our friend is offended by your cold attitude. You are not angry with him, are you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not at all, Elijah,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel.\par
\ldblquote Then show that there are no hard feelings. Put your arm about his shoulder.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I will be glad to,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel, and stepped forward.\par
Clousarr put down his fork. \ldblquote What is this? What\rquote s going on?\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel, unruffled, put out his arm.\par
Clousarr swung backhanded, wildly, knocking R. Daneel\rquote s arm to one side. \ldblquote Damn it, don\rquote t touch me.\rdblquote\par
He jumped up and away, the tray of food tipping and hitting the floor in a messy clatter.\par
Baley, hard-eyed, nodded curtly to R. Daneel, who thereupon continued a stolid advance toward the retreating zymologist. Baley stepped in front of the door.\par
Clousarr yelled, \ldblquote Keep that thing off me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s no way to speak,\rdblquote  said Baley with equanimity. \ldblquote The man\rquote s my partner.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You mean he\rquote s a damned robot,\rdblquote  shrieked Clousarr.\par
\ldblquote Get away from him, Daneel,\rdblquote  said Baley promptly.\par
R. Daneel stepped back and stood quietly against the door just behind Baley. Clousarr, panting harshly, fists clenched, faced Baley.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote All right, smart boy. What makes you think Daneel\rquote s a robot?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Anyone can tell!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We\rquote ll leave that to a judge. Meanwhile, I think we want you at headquarters, Clousarr. We\rquote d like to have you explain exactly how you knew Daneel was a robot. And lots more, mister, lots more. Daneel, step outside and get through to the Commissioner. He\rquote ll be at his home by now. Tell him to come down to the office. Tell him I have a fellow who can\rquote t wait to be questioned.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel stepped out.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote What makes your wheels go round, Clousarr?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I want a lawyer.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You\rquote ll get one. Meanwhile, suppose you tell me what makes you Medievalists tick?\rdblquote\par
Clousarr looked away in a determined silence.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Jehoshaphat, man, we know all about you and your organization. I\rquote m not bluffing. Just tell me for my own curiosity: What do you Medievalists want?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Back to the soil,\rdblquote  said Clousarr in a stifled voice. \ldblquote That\rquote s simple, isn\rquote t it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s simple to say,\rdblquote  said Baley. \ldblquote But it isn\rquote t simple to do. How\rquote s the soil going to feed eight billions?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Did I say back to the soil overnight? Or in a year? Or in a hundred years? Step by step, mister policeman. It doesn\rquote t matter how long it takes, but let\rquote s get started out of these caves we live in. Let\rquote s get out into the fresh air.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Have you ever been out into the fresh air?\rdblquote\par
Clousarr squirmed. \ldblquote All right, so I\rquote m ruined, too. But the children aren\rquote t ruined yet. There are babies being born continuously. Get them out, for God\rquote s sake. Let them have space and open air and sun. If we\rquote ve got to, we\rquote ll cut our population little by little, too.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Backward, in other words, to an impossible past.\rdblquote  Baley did not really know why he was arguing, except for the strange fever that was burning in his own veins. \ldblquote Back to the seed, to the egg, to the womb. Why not move forward? Don\rquote t cut Earth\rquote s population. Use it for export. Go back to the soil, but go back to the soil of other planets. Colonize!\rdblquote\par
Clousarr laughed harshly. \ldblquote And make more Outer Worlds? More Spacers?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We won\rquote t. The Outer Worlds were settled by Earthmen who came from a planet that did not have Cities, by Earthmen who were individualists and materialists. Those qualities were carried to an unhealthy extreme. We can now colonize out of a society that has built co-operation, if anything, too far. Now environment and tradition can interact to form a new middle way, distinct from either old Earth or the Outer Worlds. Something newer and better.\rdblquote\par
He was parroting Dr. Fastolfe, he knew, but it was coming out as though he himself had been thinking of it for years.\par
Clousarr said, \ldblquote Nuts! Colonize desert worlds with a world of our own at our fingertips? What fools would try?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Many. And they wouldn\rquote t be fools. There\rquote d be robots to help.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  said Clousarr, fiercely. \ldblquote Never! No robots!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why not, for the love of Heaven? I don\rquote t like them, either, but I\rquote m not going to knife myself for the sake of a prejudice. What are we afraid of in robots? If you want my guess, it\rquote s a sense of inferiority. We, all of us, feel inferior to the Spacers and hate it. We\rquote ve got to feel superior somehow, somewhere, to make up for it, and it kills us that we can\rquote t at least feel superior to robots. They seem to be better than us--only they\rquote re not. That\rquote s the damned irony of it.\rdblquote\par
Baley felt his blood heating as he spoke. \ldblquote Look at this Daneel I\rquote ve been with for over two days. He\rquote s taller than I am, stronger, handsomer. He looks like a Spacer, in fact. He\rquote s got a better memory and knows more facts. He doesn\rquote t have to sleep or eat. He\rquote s not troubled by sickness or panic or love or guilt.\par
\ldblquote But he\rquote s a machine. I can do anything I want to him, the way I can to that microbalance right there. If I slam the microbalance, it won\rquote t hit me back. Neither will Daneel. I can order him to take a blaster to himself and he\rquote ll do it.\par
\ldblquote We can\rquote t ever build a robot that will be even as good as a human being in anything that counts, let alone better. We can\rquote t create a robot with a sense of beauty or a sense of ethics or a sense of religion. There\rquote s no way we can raise a positronic brain one inch above the level of perfect materialism.\par
\ldblquote We can\rquote t, damn it, we can\rquote t. Not as long as we don\rquote t understand what makes our own brains tick. Not as long as things exist that science can\rquote t measure. What is beauty, or goodness, or art, or love, or God? We\rquote re forever teetering on the brink of the unknowable, and trying to understand what can\rquote t be understood. It\rquote s what makes us men.\par
\ldblquote A robot\rquote s brain must be finite or it can\rquote t be built. It must be calculated to the final decimal place so that it has an end. Jehoshaphat, what are you afraid of? A robot can look like Daneel, he can look like a god, and be no more human than a lump of wood is. Can\rquote t you see that?\rdblquote\par
Clousarr had tried to interrupt several times and failed against Baley\rquote s furious torrent. Now, when Baley paused in sheer emotional exhaustion, he said weakly, \ldblquote Copper turned philosopher. What do you know?\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel re-entered.\par
Baley looked at him and frowned, partly with the anger that had not yet left him, partly with new annoyance.\par
He said, \ldblquote What kept you?\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote I had trouble in reaching Commissioner Enderby, Elijah. It turned out he was still at his office.\rdblquote\par
Baley looked at his watch. \ldblquote Now? What for?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote There is a certain confusion at the moment. A corpse has been discovered in the Department.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What! For God\rquote s sake, who?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The errand boy, R. Sammy.\rdblquote\par
Baley gagged. He stared at the robot and said in an outraged voice, \ldblquote I thought you said a corpse.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel amended smoothly, \ldblquote A robot with a completely deactivated brain, if you prefer.\rdblquote\par
Clousarr laughed suddenly and Baley turned on him, saying huskily, \ldblquote Nothing out of you! Understand?\rdblquote  Deliberately, he unlimbered his blaster. Clousarr was very silent.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Well, what of it? R. Sammy blew a fuse. So what?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Commissioner Enderby was evasive, Elijah, but while he did not say so outright, my impression is that the Commissioner believes R. Sammy to have been deliberately deactivated.\rdblquote\par
Then, as Baley absorbed that silently, R. Daneel added gravely, \ldblquote Or, if you prefer the phrase--murdered.\rdblquote\par
\pard\keepn\pagebb\s1\sb240\sa60\qc\kerning32\b\f2\fs32 Chapter 16\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa240\qc\kerning0\i\fs28 QUESTIONS CONCERNING A MOTIVE\par
\pard\fi216\qj\b0\i0\f0\fs24 Baley replaced his blaster, but kept his hand unobtrusively upon its butt.\par
He said, \ldblquote Walk ahead of us, Clousarr, to Seventeenth Street Exit B.\rdblquote\par
Clousarr said, \ldblquote I haven\rquote t eaten.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Tough,\rdblquote  said Baley, impatiently. \ldblquote There\rquote s your meal on the floor where you dumped it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I have a right to eat.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You\rquote ll eat in detention, or you\rquote ll miss a meal. You won\rquote t starve. Get going.\rdblquote\par
All three were silent as they threaded the maze of New York Yeast, Clousarr moving stonily in advance, Baley right behind him, and R. Daneel in the rear.\par
It was after Baley and R. Daneel had checked out at the receptionist\rquote s desk, after Clousarr had drawn a leave of absence and requested that a man be sent in to clean up the balance room, after they were out in the open just to one side of the parked squad car, that Clousarr said, \ldblquote Just a minute.\rdblquote\par
He hung back, turned toward R. Daneel, and, before Baley could make a move to stop him, stepped forward and swung his open hand full against the robot\rquote s cheek.\par
\ldblquote What the devil,\rdblquote  cried Baley, snatching violently at Clousarr.\par
Clousarr did not resist the plain-clothes man\rquote s grasp. \ldblquote It\rquote s all right. I\rquote ll go. I just wanted to see for myself.\rdblquote  He was grinning.\par
R. Daneel, having faded with the slap, but not having escaped it entirely, gazed quietly at Clousarr. There was no reddening of his cheek, no mark of any blow.\par
He said, \ldblquote That was a dangerous action, Francis. Had I not moved backward, you might easily have damaged your hand. As it is, I regret that I must have caused you pain.\rdblquote\par
Clousarr laughed.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Get in, Clousarr. You, too, Daneel. Right in the back seat with him. And make sure he doesn\rquote t move. I don\rquote t care if it means breaking his arm. That\rquote s an order.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What about the First Law?\rdblquote  mocked Clousarr.\par
\ldblquote I think Daneel is strong enough and fast enough to stop you without hurting you, but it might do you good to have an arm or two broken at that.\rdblquote\par
Baley got behind the wheel and the squad car gathered speed. The empty wind ruffled his hair and Clousarr\rquote s, but R. Daneel\rquote s remained smoothly in place.\par
R. Daneel said quietly to Clousarr, \ldblquote Do you fear robots for the sake of your job, Mr. Clousarr?\rdblquote\par
Baley could not turn to see Clousarr\rquote s expression, but he was certain it would be a hard and rigid mirror of detestation, that he would be sitting stiffly apart, as far as he might, from R. Daneel.\par
Clousarr\rquote s voice said, \ldblquote And my kids\rquote  jobs. And everyone\rquote s kids.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Surely adjustments are possible,\rdblquote  said the robot. \ldblquote If your children, for instance, were to accept training for emigration--\rdblquote\par
Clousarr broke in. \ldblquote You, too? The policeman talked about emigration. He\rquote s got good robot training. Maybe he is a robot.\rdblquote\par
Baley growled, \ldblquote That\rquote s enough, you!\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said, evenly, \ldblquote A training school for emigrants would involve security, guaranteed classification, an assured career. If you are concerned over your children, that is something to consider.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I wouldn\rquote t take anything from a robot, or a Spacer, or any of your trained hyenas in the Government.\rdblquote\par
That was all. The silence of the motorway engulfed them and there was only the soft whirr of the squad-car motor and the hiss of its wheels on the pavement.\par
Back at the Department, Baley signed a detention certificate for Clousarr and left him in appropriate hands. Following that, he and R. Daneel took the motospiral up the levels to Headquarters.\par
R. Daneel showed no surprise that they had not taken the elevators, nor did Baley expect him to. He was becoming used to the robot\rquote s queer mixture of ability and submissiveness and tended to leave him out of his calculations. The elevator was the logical method of heaping the vertical gap between Detention and Headquarters. The long moving stairway that was the motospiral was useful only for short climbs or drops of two or three levels at most. People of all sorts and varieties of administrative occupation stepped on and then off in less than a minute. Only Baley and R. Daneel remained on continuously, moving upward in a slow and stolid measure.\par
Baley felt that he needed the time. It was only minutes at best, but up in Headquarters he would be thrown violently into another phase of the problem and he wanted a rest. He wanted time to think and orient himself. Slowly as it moved, the motospiral went too quickly to satisfy him.\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote It seems then we will not be questioning Clousarr just yet.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He\rquote ll keep,\rdblquote  said Baley, irritably. \ldblquote Let\rquote s find out what the R. Sammy thing is all about.\rdblquote  He added in a mutter, far more to himself than to R. Daneel, \ldblquote It can\rquote t be independent; there must be a connection.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote It is a pity. Clousarr\rquote s cerebric qualities--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What about them?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote They have changed in a strange way. What was it that took place between the two of you in the balance room while I was not present?\rdblquote\par
Baley said, absently, \ldblquote The only thing I did was to preach at him. I passed along the gospel according to St. Fastolfe.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I do not understand you, Elijah.\rdblquote\par
Baley sighed and said, \ldblquote Look, I tried to explain that Earth might as well make use of robots and get its population surplus onto other planets. I tried to knock some of the Medievalist hogwash out of his head. God knows why. I\rquote ve never thought of myself as the missionary type. Anyway, that\rquote s all that happened.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I see. Well, that makes some sense. Perhaps that can be fitted in. Tell me, Elijah, what did you tell him about robots?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You really want to know? I told him robots were simply machines. That was the gospel according to St. Gerrigel. There are any number of gospels, I think.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Did you by any chance tell him that one could strike a robot without fear of a return blow, much as one could strike any other mechanical object?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Except a punching bag, I suppose. Yes. But what made you guess that?\rdblquote  Baley looked curiously at the robot.\par
\ldblquote It fits the cerebric changes,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel, \ldblquote and it explains his blow to my face just after we left the factory. He must have been thinking of what you said, so he simultaneously tested your statement, worked off his aggressive feelings, and had the pleasure of seeing me placed in what seemed to him a position of inferiority. In order to be so motivated and allowing for the delta variations in his quintic ...\rdblquote\par
He paused a long moment and said, \ldblquote Yes, it is quite interesting, and now I believe I can form a self-consistent whole of the data.\rdblquote\par
Headquarters level was approaching. Baley said, \ldblquote What time is it?\rdblquote  He thought, pettishly: Nuts, I could look at my watch and take less time that way.\par
But he knew why he asked him, nevertheless. The motive was not so different from Clousarr\rquote s in punching R. Daneel. To give the robot a trivial order that he must fulfill emphasized his roboticity and, contrariwise, Baley\rquote s humanity.\par
Baley thought: We\rquote re all brothers. Under the skin, over it, everywhere. Jehoshaphat!\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote Twenty-ten.\rdblquote\par
They stepped off the motospiral and for a few seconds Baley had the usual queen sensation that went with the necessary adjustment to non-motion after long minutes of steady movement.\par
He said, \ldblquote And I haven\rquote t eaten. Damn this job, anyway.\rdblquote\par
Baley saw and heard Commissioner Enderby through the open door of his office. The common room was empty, as though it had been wiped clean, and Enderby\rquote s voice rang through it with unusual hollowness. His round face looked bare and weak without its glasses, which he held in his hand, while he mopped his smooth forehead with a flimsy paper napkin.\par
His eyes caught Baley just as the latter reached the door and his voice rose into a petulant tenor.\par
\ldblquote Good God, Baley, where the devil were you?\rdblquote\par
Baley shrugged off the remark and said, \ldblquote What\rquote s doing? Where\rquote s the night shift?\rdblquote  and then caught sight of the second person in the office with the Commissioner.\par
He said, blankly, \ldblquote Dr. Gerrigel!\rdblquote\par
The gray-haired roboticist returned the involuntary greeting by nodding briefly. \ldblquote I\rquote m glad to see you again, Mr. Baley.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner readjusted his glasses and stared at Baley through them. \ldblquote The entire staff is being questioned downstairs. Signing statements. I was going mad trying to find you. It looked queer, your being away.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote My being away!\rdblquote  cried Baley, strenuously.\par
\ldblquote Anybody\rquote s being away. Someone in the Department did it and there\rquote s going to be hell to pay for that. What an unholy mess! What an unholy, rotten mess!\rdblquote\par
He raised his hands as though in expostulation to heaven and as he did so, his eyes fell on R. Daneel.\par
Baley thought sardonically: First time you\rquote ve looked Daneel in the face. Take a good look, Julius!\par
The Commissioner said in a subdued voice, \ldblquote He\rquote ll have to sign a statement. Even I\rquote ve had to do it. I!\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Look, Commissioner, what makes you so sure that R. Sammy didn\rquote t blow a gasket all by himself? What makes it deliberate destruction?\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner sat down heavily. \ldblquote Ask him,\rdblquote  he said, and pointed to Dr. Gerrigel.\par
Dr. Gerrigel cleared his throat. \ldblquote I scarcely know how to go about this, Mr. Baley. I take it from your expression that you are surprised to see me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Moderately,\rdblquote  admitted Baley.\par
\ldblquote Well, I was in no real hurry to return to Washington and my visits to New York are few enough to make me wish to linger. And what\rquote s more important, I had a growing feeling that it would be criminal for me to leave the City without having made at least one more effort to be allowed to analyze your fascinating robot, whom, by the way,\rdblquote  (he looked very eager) \ldblquote I see you have with you.\rdblquote\par
Baley stirred restlessly. \ldblquote That\rquote s quite impossible.\rdblquote\par
The roboticist looked disappointed. \ldblquote Now, yes. Perhaps later?\rdblquote\par
Baley\rquote s long face remained woodenly unresponsive.\par
Dr. Gerrigel went on. \ldblquote I called you, but you weren\rquote t in and no one knew where you could be located. I asked for the Commissioner and he asked me to come to headquarters and wait for you.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner interposed quickly. \ldblquote I thought it might be important. I knew you wanted to see the man.\rdblquote\par
Baley nodded. \ldblquote Thanks.\rdblquote\par
Dr. Gerrigel said, \ldblquote Unfortunately my guide rod was somewhat off, or perhaps in my over-anxiety I misjudged its temperature. In either case I took a wrong turning and found myself in a small room--\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner interrupted again. \ldblquote One of the photographic supply rooms, Lije.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  said Dr. Gerrigel. \ldblquote And in it was the prone figure of what was obviously a robot. It was quite clear to me after a brief examination that he was irreversibly deactivated. Dead, you might say. Nor was it very difficult to determine the cause of the deactivation.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What was it?\rdblquote  asked Baley.\par
\ldblquote In the robot\rquote s partly clenched right fist,\rdblquote  said Dr. Gerrigel, \ldblquote was a shiny ovoid about two inches long and half an inch wide with a mica window at one end. The fist was in contact with his skull as though the robot\rquote s last act had been to touch his head. The thing he was holding was an alpha-sprayer. You know what they are, I suppose?\rdblquote\par
Baley nodded. He needed neither dictionary nor handbook to be told what an alpha-sprayer was. He had handled several in his lab courses in physics: a head-alloy casing with a narrow pit dug into it longitudinally, at the bottom of which was a fragment of a plutonium salt. The pit was capped with a shiver of mica, which was transparent to alpha particles. In that one direction, hard radiation sprayed out.\par
An alpha-sprayer had many uses, but killing robots was not one of them, not a legal one, at least.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote He held it to his head mica first, I take it.\rdblquote\par
Dr. Gerrigel said, \ldblquote Yes, and his positronic brain paths were immediately randomized. Instant death, so to speak.\rdblquote\par
Baley turned to the pale Commissioner. \ldblquote No mistake? It really was an alpha-sprayer?\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner nodded, his plump lips thrust out. \ldblquote Absolutely. The counters could spot it ten feet away. Photographic film in the storeroom was fogged. Cut and dried.\rdblquote\par
He seemed to brood about it for a moment or two, then said abruptly, \ldblquote Dr. Gerrigel, I\rquote m afraid you\rquote ll have to stay in the City a day or two until we can get your evidence down on [wire]-film. I\rquote ll have you escorted to a room. You don\rquote t mind being under guard, I hope?\rdblquote\par
Dr. Gerrigel said nervously, \ldblquote Do you think it\rquote s necessary?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s safer.\rdblquote\par
Dr. Gerrigel, seeming quite abstracted, shook hands all around, even with R. Daneel, and left.\par
The Commissioner heaved a sigh. \ldblquote It\rquote s one of us, Lije. That\rquote s what bothers me. No outsider would come into the Department just to knock off a robot. Plenty of them outside where it\rquote s safer. And it had to be somebody who could pick up an alpha-sprayer. They\rquote re hard to get hold of.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel spoke, his cool, even voice cutting through the agitated words of the Commissioner. He said, \ldblquote But what is the motive for this murder?\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner glanced at R. Daneel with obvious distaste, then looked away. \ldblquote We\rquote re human, too. I suppose policemen can\rquote t get to like robots any more than anyone else can. He\rquote s gone now and maybe it\rquote s a relief to somebody. He used to annoy you considerably, Lije, remember?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That is scarcely murder motive,\rdblquote  said R Daneel.\par
\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  agreed Baley, with decision.\par
\ldblquote It isn\rquote t murder,\rdblquote  said the Commissioner. \ldblquote It\rquote s property damage. Let\rquote s keep our legal terms straight. It\rquote s just that it was done inside the Department. Anywhere else it would be nothing. Nothing. Now it could be a first-class scandal. Lije!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote When did you last see R. Sammy?\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote R. Daneel spoke to R. Sammy after lunch. I should judge it was about 13:30. He arranged to have us use your office, Commissioner.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote My office? What for?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I wanted to talk over the case with R. Daneel in moderate privacy. You weren\rquote t in, so your office was an obvious place.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I see.\rdblquote  The Commissioner looked dubious, but let the matter ride. \ldblquote You didn\rquote t see him yourself?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, but I heard his voice perhaps an hour afterward.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Are you sure it was he?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Perfectly.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That would be about 14:30?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Or a little sooner.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner bit his pudgy lower lip thoughtfully. \ldblquote Well, that settles one thing.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It does?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes. The boy, Vincent Barrett, was here today. Did you know that?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes. But, Commissioner, he wouldn\rquote t do anything like this.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner lifted his eyes to Baley\rquote s face. \ldblquote Why not? R. Sammy took his job away. I can understand how he feels. There would be a tremendous sense of injustice. He would want a certain revenge. Wouldn\rquote t you? But the fact is that he left the building at 14:00 and you heard R. Sammy alive at 14:30. Of course, he might have given the alpha-sprayer to R. Sammy before he left with instructions not to use it for an hour, but then where could he have gotten an alpha-sprayer? It doesn\rquote t bear thinking of. Let\rquote s get back to R. Sammy. When you spoke to him at 14:30, what did he say?\rdblquote\par
Baley hesitated a perceptible moment, then said carefully, \ldblquote I don\rquote t remember. We left shortly afterward.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Where did you go?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yeast-town, eventually. I want to talk about that, by the way.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Later. Later.\rdblquote  The Commissioner rubbed his chin. \ldblquote Jessie was in today, I noticed. I mean, we were checking on all visitors today and I just happened to see her name.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote She was here,\rdblquote  said Baley, coldly.\par
\ldblquote What for?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Personal family matters.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote She\rquote ll have to be questioned as a pure formality.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I understand police routine, Commissioner. Incidentally, what about the alpha-sprayer itself? Has it been traced?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh, yes. It came from one of the power plants.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How do they account for having lost it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote They don\rquote t. They have no idea. But look, Lije, except for routine statements, this has nothing to do with you. You stick to your case. It\rquote s just that ... Well, you stick to the Spacetown investigation.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote May I give my routine statements later, Commissioner? The fact is, I haven\rquote t eaten yet.\rdblquote\par
Commissioner Enderby\rquote s glassed-eyes turned full on Baley. \ldblquote By all means get something to eat. But stay inside the Department, will you? Your partner\rquote s right, though, Lije\rdblquote --he seemed to avoid addressing R. Daneel or using his name--\ldblquote it\rquote s the motive we need. The motive.\rdblquote\par
Baley felt suddenly frozen.\par
Something outside himself, something completely alien, took up the events of this day and the day before and the day before and juggled them. Once again pieces began to dovetail; a pattern began to form.\par
He said, \ldblquote Which power plant did the alpha-sprayer come from, Commissioner?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The Williamsburg plant. Why?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Nothing. Nothing.\rdblquote\par
The last word Baley heard the Commissioner mutter as he strode out of the office, with R. Daneel immediately behind him, was, \ldblquote Motive. Motive.\rdblquote\par
Baley ate a sparse meal in the small and infrequently used Department lunchroom. He devoured the stuffed tomato on lettuce without being entirely aware of its nature and for a second or so after he had gulped down the last mouthful his fork still slithered aimlessly over the slick cardboard of his plate, searching automatically for something that was no longer there.\par
He became aware of that and put down his fork with a muffled, \ldblquote Jehoshaphat!\rdblquote\par
He said, \ldblquote Daneel!\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel had been sitting at another table, as though he wished to leave the obviously preoccupied Baley in peace, or as though he required privacy himself. Baley was past caring which.\par
Daneel stood up, moved to Baley\rquote s table, and sat down again. \ldblquote Yes, partner Elijah?\rdblquote\par
Baley did not look at him. \ldblquote Daneel, I\rquote ll need your co-operation.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote In what way?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote They will question Jessie and myself. That is certain. Let me answer the questions in my own way. Do you understand?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I understand what you say, of course. Nevertheless, if I am asked a direct question, how is it possible for me to say anything but what is so?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If you are asked a direct question, that\rquote s another matter. I ask only that you don\rquote t volunteer information. You can do that, can\rquote t you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I believe so, Elijah, provided it does not appear that I am hurting a human being by remaining silent.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, grimly, \ldblquote You will hurt me if you don\rquote t. I assure you of that.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I do not quite understand your point of view, partner Elijah. Surely the matter of R. Sammy cannot concern you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No? It all centers about motive, doesn\rquote t it? You\rquote ve questioned the motive. The Commissioner questioned it. I do, for that matter. Why should anyone want to kill R. Sammy? Mind you, it\rquote s not just a question of who would want to smash up robots in general. Any Earthman, practically, would want to do that. The question is, who would want to single out R. Sammy. Vincent Barrett might, but the Commissioner said he couldn\rquote t get hold of an alpha-sprayer, and he\rquote s right. We have to look somewhere else, and it so happens that one other person has a motive. It glares out. It yells. It stinks to top level.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Who is the person, Elijah?\rdblquote\par
And Baley said, softly, \ldblquote I am, Daneel.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel\rquote s expressionless face did not change under the impact of the statement. He merely shook his head.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote You don\rquote t agree. My wife came to the office today. They know that already. The Commissioner is even curious. If I weren\rquote t a personal friend, he wouldn\rquote t have stopped his questioning so soon. Now they\rquote ll find out why. That\rquote s certain. She was part of a conspiracy; a foolish and harmless one, but a conspiracy just the same. And a policeman can\rquote t afford to have his wife mixed up with anything like that. It would be to my obvious interest to see that the matter was hushed up.\par
\ldblquote Well, who knew about it? You and I, of course, and Jessie--and R. Sammy. He saw her in a state of panic. When he told her that we had left orders not to be disturbed, she must have lost control. You saw the way she was when she first came in.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote It is unlikely that she said anything incriminating to him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That may be so. But I\rquote m reconstructing the case the way they will. They\rquote ll say she did. There\rquote s my motive. I killed him to keep him quiet.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote They will not think so.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote They will think so. The murder was arranged deliberately in order to throw suspicion on me. Why use an alpha-sprayer? It\rquote s a rather risky way. It\rquote s hard to get and it can be traced. I think that those were the very reasons it was used. The murderer even ordered R. Sammy to go into the photographic supply room and kill himself there. It seems obvious to me that the reason for that was to have the method of murder unmistakable. Even if everyone was so infantile as not to recognize the alpha-sprayer immediately, someone would be bound to notice fogged photographic film in fairly short order.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How does that all relate to you, Elijah?\rdblquote\par
Bailey grinned tightly, his long face completely devoid of humor. \ldblquote Very neatly. The alpha-sprayer was taken from the Williamsburg power plant. You and I passed through the Williamsburg power plant yesterday. We were seen, and the fact will come out. That gives me opportunity to get the weapon as well as motive for the crime. And it may turn out that we were the last ones to see or hear R. Sammy alive, except for the real murderer, of course.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I was with you in the power plant and I can testify that you did not have the opportunity to steal an alpha-sprayer.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Thanks,\rdblquote  said Baley sadly, \ldblquote but you\rquote re a robot and your testimony will be invalid.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The Commissioner is your friend. He will listen.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The Commissioner has a job to keep, and he already is a bit uneasy about me. There\rquote s only one chance of saving myself from this very nasty situation.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I ask myself, why am I being framed? Obviously to get rid of me. But why? Again obviously, because I am dangerous to someone. I am doing my best to be dangerous to whoever killed Dr. Sarton in Spacetown. That might mean the Medievalists, of course, or at least, the inner group among them. It would be this inner group that would know I had passed through the power plant; at least one of them might have followed me along the strips that far, even though you thought we had lost them.\par
\ldblquote So the chances are that if I find the murderer of Dr. Sarton, I find the man or men who are trying to get me out of the way. If I think it through, if I crack the case, if I can only crack it, I\rquote ll be safe. And Jessie. I couldn\rquote t stand to have her. --But I don\rquote t have much time.\rdblquote  His fist clenched and unclenched spasmodically. \ldblquote I don\rquote t have much time.\rdblquote\par
Baley looked at R. Daneel\rquote s chiseled face with a sudden burning hope. Whatever the creature was, he was strong and faithful, animated by no selfishness. What more could you ask of any friend? Baley needed a friend and he was in no mood to cavil at the fact that a gear replaced a blood vessel in this particular one.\par
But R. Daneel was shaking his head.\par
The robot said, \ldblquote I am sorry, Elijah\rdblquote --there was no trace of sorrow on his face, of course--\ldblquote but I anticipated none of this. Perhaps my action was to your harm. I am sorry if the general good requires that.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What general good?\rdblquote  stammered Baley.\par
\ldblquote I have been in communication with Dr. Fastolfe.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Jehoshaphat! When?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote While you were eating.\rdblquote\par
Baley\rquote s lips tightened.\par
\ldblquote Well?\rdblquote  he managed to say. \ldblquote What happened?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You will have to clear yourself of suspicion of the murder of R. Sammy through some means other than the investigation of the murder of my designer, Dr. Sarton. Our people at Spacetown, as a result of my information, have decided to bring that investigation to an end, as of today, and to begin plans for leaving Spacetown and Earth.\rdblquote\par
\pard\keepn\pagebb\s1\sb240\sa60\qc\kerning32\b\f2\fs32 Chapter 17\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa240\qc\kerning0\i\fs28 CONCLUSION OF A PROJECT\par
\pard\fi216\qj\b0\i0\f0\fs24 Baley looked at his watch with something approaching detachment. It was 21:45. In two and a quarter hours it would be midnight. He had been awake since before six and had been under tension now for two and a half days. A vague sense of unreality pervaded everything.\par
He kept his voice painfully steady as he reached for his pipe and for the little bag that held his precious crumbs of tobacco. He said, \ldblquote What\rquote s it all about, Daneel?\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote Do you not understand? Is it not obvious?\rdblquote\par
Baley said, patiently, \ldblquote I do not understand. It is not obvious.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We are here,\rdblquote  said the robot, \ldblquote and by we, I mean our people at Spacetown, to break the shell surrounding Earth and force its people into new expansion and colonization.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I know that. Please don\rquote t labor the point.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I must, since it is the essential one. If we were anxious to exact punishment for the murder of Dr. Sarton, it was not that in doing so we expected to bring Dr. Sarton back to life, you understand; it was only that failure to do so would strengthen the position of our home planet politicians who are against the very idea of Spacetown.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But now,\rdblquote  said Baley, with sudden violence, \ldblquote you say you\rquote re getting ready to go home of your own accord. Why? In heaven\rquote s name, why? The answer to the Sarton case is close. It must be close or they wouldn\rquote t be trying so hard to blast me out of the investigation. I have a feeling I have all the facts I need to work out the answer. It must be in here somewhere.\rdblquote  He knuckled his temple wildly. \ldblquote A sentence might bring it out. A word.\rdblquote\par
He clenched his eyes fiercely shut, as though the quivering opaque jelly of the last sixty hours were indeed on the point of clarifying and becoming transparent. But it did not. It did not.\par
Baley drew a shuddering breath and felt ashamed. He was making a weak spectacle of himself before a cold and unimpressed machine that could only stare at him silently.\par
He said harshly, \ldblquote Well, never mind that. Why are the Spacers breaking off?\rdblquote\par
The robot said, \ldblquote Our project is concluded. We are satisfied that Earth will colonize.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You\rquote ve switched to optimism then?\rdblquote  The plain-clothes man drew in his first calming puff of tobacco smoke and felt his grip upon his own emotions grow firmer.\par
\ldblquote I have. For a long time now, we of Spacetown have tried to change Earth by changing its economy. We have tried to introduce our own C/Fe culture. Your planetary and various City governments co-operated with us because it was expedient to do so. Still, in twenty-five years, we have failed. The harder we tried, the stronger the opposing party of the Medievalists grew.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I know all this,\rdblquote  said Baley. He thought: No use. He\rquote s got to tell this in his own way, like a field recording. He yelled silently at R. Daneel: Machine!\par
R. Daneel went on, \ldblquote It was Dr. Sarton who first theorized that we must reverse our tactics. We must first find a segment of Earth\rquote s population that desired what we desired or could be persuaded to do so. By encouraging and helping them, we could make the movement a native one rather than a foreign one. The difficulty was in finding the native element best suited for our purposes. You, yourself, Elijah, were an interesting experiment.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I? I? What do you mean?\rdblquote  demanded Baley.\par
\ldblquote We were glad your Commissioner recommended you. From your psychic profile we judged you to be a useful specimen. Cerebroanalysis, a process I conducted upon you as soon as I met you, confirmed our judgment. You are a practical man, Elijah. You do not moon romantically over Earth\rquote s past, despite your healthy interest in it. Nor do you stubbornly embrace the City culture of Earth\rquote s present day. We felt that people such as yourself were the ones that could lead Earthmen to the stars once more. It was one reason Dr. Fastolfe was anxious to see you yesterday morning.\par
\ldblquote To be sure, your practical nature was embarrassingly intense. You refused to understand that the fanatical service of an ideal, even a mistaken ideal, could make a man do things quite beyond his ordinary capacity, as, for instance, crossing open country at night to destroy someone he considered an archenemy of his cause. We were not overly surprised, therefore, that you were stubborn enough and daring enough to attempt to prove the murder a fraud. In a way, it proved you were the man we wanted for our experiment.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote For God\rquote s sake, what experiment?\rdblquote  Baley brought his fist down on the table.\par
\ldblquote The experiment of persuading you that colonization was the answer to Earth\rquote s problems.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, I was persuaded. I\rquote ll grant you that.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, under the influence of the appropriate drug.\rdblquote\par
Baley\rquote s teeth loosened their grip on his pipestem. He caught the pipe as it fell. Once again, he was seeing that scene in the Spacetown dome. Himself swimming back to awareness after the shock of learning that R. Daneel was a robot after all; R. Daneel\rquote s smooth fingers pinching up the flesh of his arm; a hypo-shiver standing out darkly under his skin and then fading away.\par
He said, chokingly, \ldblquote What was in the hypo-shiver?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Nothing that need alarm you, Elijah. It was a mild drug intended only to make your mind more receptive.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And so I believed whatever was told me. Is that it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not quite. You would not believe anything that was foreign to the basic pattern of your thought. In fact, the results of the experiment were disappointing. Dr. Fastolfe had hoped you would become fanatical and single-minded on the subject. Instead you became rather distantly approving, no more. Your practical nature stood in the way of anything further. It made us realize that our only hope was the romantics after all, and the romantics, unfortunately, were all Medievalists, actual or potential.\rdblquote\par
Baley felt incongruously proud of himself, glad of his stubbornness, and happy that he had disappointed them. Let them experiment with someone else.\par
He grinned savagely. \ldblquote And so now you\rquote ve given up and are going home?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why, that is not it. I said a few moments ago that we were satisfied Earth would colonize. It was you that gave us the answer.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I gave it to you? How?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You spoke to Francis Clousarr of the advantages of colonization. You spoke rather fervently, I judge. At least our experiment on you had that result. And Clousarr\rquote s cerebroanalytic properties changed. Very subtly, to be sure, but they changed.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You mean I convinced him that I was right? I don\rquote t believe that.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No, conviction does not come that easily. But the cerebroanalytic changes demonstrated conclusively that the Medievalist mind is open to that sort of conviction. I experimented further myself. When leaving Yeast-town, guessing what might have happened between you two from his cerebric changes, I made the proposition of a school for emigrants as a way of insuring his children\rquote s future. He rejected that, but again his aura changed, and it seemed to me quite obvious that it was the proper method of attack.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel paused, then spoke on.\par
\ldblquote The thing called Medievalism shows a craving for pioneering. To be sure, the direction in which that craving turns itself is toward Earth itself, which is near and which has the precedent of a great past. But the vision of worlds beyond is a similar something and the romantic can turn to it easily, just as Clousarr felt the attraction as a result of one lecture from you.\par
\ldblquote So you see, we of Spacetown had already succeeded without knowing it. We ourselves, rather than anything we tried to introduce, were the unsettling factor. We crystallized the romantic impulses on Earth into Medievalism and induced an organization in them. After all, it is the Medievalist who wishes to break the cake of custom, not the City officials who have most to gain from preserving the status quo. If we leave Spacetown now, if we do not irritate the Medievalist by our continued presence until he has committed himself to Earth, and only Earth, past redemption, if we leave behind a few obscure individuals or robots such as myself who, together with sympathetic Earthmen such as yourself, can establish the training schools for emigrants that I spoke of, the Medievalist will eventually turn away from Earth. He will need robots and will either get them from us or build his own. He will develop a C/Fe culture to suit himself.\rdblquote\par
It was a long speech for R. Daneel. He must have realized that himself, for, after another pause, he said, \ldblquote I tell you all this to explain why it is necessary to do something that may hurt you.\rdblquote\par
Baley thought bitterly: A robot must not hurt a human being, unless he can think of a way to prove it is for the human being\rquote s ultimate good after all.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Just a minute. Let me introduce a practical note. You\rquote ll go back to your worlds and say that an Earthman killed a Spacer and is unpunished. The Outer Worlds will demand an indemnity from Earth, and I warn you, Earth is no longer in a mood to endure such treatment. There will be trouble.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I am sure that will not happen, Elijah. The elements on our planets that would be most interested in pressing for an indemnity would be also most interested in forcing an end to Spacetown. We can easily offer the latter as an inducement to abandon the former. It is what we plan to do, anyway. Earth will be left in peace.\rdblquote\par
And Baley broke out, his voice hoarse with sudden despair, \ldblquote And where does that leave me? The Commissioner will drop the Sarton investigation at once if Spacetown is willing, but the R. Sammy thing will have to continue, since it points to corruption inside the Department. He\rquote ll be in any minute with a ream of evidence against me. I know that. It\rquote s been arranged. I\rquote ll be declassified, Daneel. There\rquote s Jessie to consider. She\rquote ll be smeared as a criminal. There\rquote s Bentley--\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote You must not think, Elijah, that I do not understand the position in which you find yourself. In the service of humanity\rquote s good, the minor wrongs must be tolerated. Dr. Sarton has a surviving wife, two children, parents, a sister, many friends. All must grieve at his death and be saddened at the thought that his murderer has not been found and punished.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then why not stay and find him?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It is no longer necessary.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, bitterly, \ldblquote Why not admit that the entire investigation was an excuse to study us under field conditions? You never gave a damn who killed Dr. Sarton.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We would have liked to know,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel, coolly, \ldblquote but we were never under any delusions as to which was more important, an individual or humanity. To continue the investigation now would involve interfering with a situation which we now find satisfactory. We could not foretell what damage we might do.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You mean the murderer might turn out to be a prominent Medievalist and right now the Spacers don\rquote t want to do anything to antagonize their new friends.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It is not as I would say it, but there is truth in your words.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Where\rquote s your justice circuit, Daneel? Is this justice?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote There are degrees of justice, Elijah. When the lesser is incompatible with the greater, the lesser must give way.\rdblquote\par
It was as though Baley\rquote s mind were circling the impregnable logic of R. Daneel\rquote s positronic brain, searching for a loophole, a weakness.\par
He said, \ldblquote Have you no personal curiosity, Daneel? You\rquote ve called yourself a detective. Do you know what that implies? Do you understand that an investigation is more than a job of work? It is a challenge. Your mind is pitted against that of the criminal. It is a clash of intellect. Can you abandon the battle and admit defeat?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If no worthy end is served by a continuation, certainly.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Would you feel no loss? No wonder? Would there be no little speck of dissatisfaction? Frustrated curiosity?\rdblquote\par
Baley\rquote s hopes, not strong in the first place, weakened as he spoke. The word \ldblquote curiosity,\rdblquote  second time repeated, brought back his own remarks to Francis Clousarr four hours before. He had known well enough then the qualities that marked off a man from a machine. Curiosity had to be one of them. A six-week-old kitten was curious, but how could there be a curious machine, be it ever so humanoid?\par
R. Daneel echoed those thoughts by saying, \ldblquote What do you mean by curiosity?\rdblquote\par
Baley put the best face on it. \ldblquote Curiosity is the name we give to a desire to extend one\rquote s knowledge.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Such a desire exists within me, when the extension of knowledge is necessary for the performance of an assigned task.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  said Baley, sarcastically, \ldblquote as when you ask questions about Bentley\rquote s contact lenses in order to learn more of Earth\rquote s peculiar customs.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Precisely,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel, with no sign of any awareness of sarcasm. \ldblquote Aimless extension of knowledge, however, which is what I think you really mean by the term curiosity, is merely inefficiency. I am designed to avoid inefficiency.\rdblquote\par
It was in that way that the \ldblquote sentence\rdblquote  he had been waiting for came to Elijah Baley, and the opaque jelly shuddered and settled and changed into luminous transparency.\par
While R. Daneel spoke, Baley\rquote s mouth opened and stayed so.\par
It could not all have burst full-grown into his mind. Things did not work so. Somewhere, deep inside his unconscious, he had built a case, built it carefully and in detail, but had been brought up short by a single inconsistency. One inconsistency that could be neither jumped over, burrowed under, nor shunted aside. While that inconsistency existed, the case remained buried below his thoughts, beyond the reach of his conscious probing.\par
But the sentence had come; the inconsistency had vanished; the case was his.\par
The glare of mental light appeared to have stimulated Baley mightily. At least he suddenly knew what R. Daneel\rquote s weakness must be, the weakness of any thinking machine. He thought feverishly, hopefully: The thing must be literal-minded.\par
He said, \ldblquote Then Project Spacetown is concluded as of today and with it the Sarton investigation. Is that it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That is the decision of our people at Spacetown,\rdblquote  agreed R. Daneel, calmly.\par
\ldblquote But today is not yet over.\rdblquote  Baley looked at his watch. It was 22:30. \ldblquote There is an hour and a half until midnight.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said nothing. He seemed to consider.\par
Baley spoke rapidly. \ldblquote Until midnight, the project continues then. You are my partner and the investigation continues.\rdblquote  He was becoming almost telegraphic in his haste. \ldblquote Let us go on as before. Let me work. It will do your people no harm. It will do them great good. My word upon it. If, in your judgment, I am doing harm, stop me. It is only an hour and a half I ask.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote What you say is correct. Today is not over. I had not thought of that, partner Elijah.\rdblquote\par
Baley was \ldblquote partner Elijah\rdblquote  again.\par
He grinned, and said, \ldblquote Didn\rquote t Dr. Fastolfe mention a film of the scene of the murder when I was in Spacetown?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He did,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Can you get a copy of the film?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes, partner Elijah.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I mean now! Instantly!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote In ten minutes, if I can use the Department transmitter.\rdblquote\par
The process took less time than that. Baley stared at the small aluminum block he held in his trembling hands. Within it the subtle forces transmitted from Spacetown had strongly fixed a certain atomic pattern.\par
And at that moment, Commissioner Julius Enderby stood in the doorway. He saw Baley and a certain anxiety passed from his round face, leaving behind it a look of growing thunder.\par
He said, uncertainly, \ldblquote Look here, Lije, you\rquote re taking a devil of a time, eating.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I was bone-tired, Commissioner. Sorry if I\rquote ve delayed you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I wouldn\rquote t mind, but ... You\rquote d better come to my office.\rdblquote  Baley\rquote s eyes flicked toward R. Daneel, but met no answering look. Together they moved out of the lunchroom.\par
Julius Enderby tramped the floor before his desk, up and down, up and down. Baley watched him, himself far from composed. Occasionally, he glanced at his watch.\par
22:45.\par
The Commissioner moved his glasses up onto his forehead and rubbed his eyes with thumb and forefinger. He left red splotches in the flesh around them, then restored the glasses to their place, blinking at Baley from behind them.\par
\ldblquote Lije,\rdblquote  he said suddenly, \ldblquote when were you last in the Williamsburg power plant?\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Yesterday, after I left the office. I should judge at about eighteen or shortly thereafter.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner shook his head. \ldblquote Why didn\rquote t you say so?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I was going to. I haven\rquote t given an official statement yet.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What were you doing there?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Just passing through on my way to our temporary sleeping quarters.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner stopped short, standing before Baley, and said, \ldblquote That\rquote s no good, Lije. No one just passes through a power plant to get somewhere else.\rdblquote\par
Baley shrugged. There was no point in going through the story of the pursuing Medievalists, of the dash along the strips. Not now.\par
He said, \ldblquote If you\rquote re trying to hint that I had an opportunity to get the alpha-sprayer that knocked out R. Sammy, I\rquote ll remind you that Daneel was with me and will testify that I went right through the plant without stopping and that I had no alpha-sprayer on me when I left.\rdblquote\par
Slowly, the Commissioner sat down. He did not look in R. Daneel\rquote s direction or offer to speak to him. He put his pudgy white hands on the desk before him and regarded them with a look of acute misery on his face.\par
He said, \ldblquote Lije, I don\rquote t know what to say or what to think. And it\rquote s no use having your--your partner as alibi. He can\rquote t give evidence.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I still deny that I took an alpha-sprayer.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner\rquote s fingers intertwined and writhed. He said, \ldblquote Lije, why did Jessie come to see you here this afternoon?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You asked me that before, Commissioner. Same answer. Family matters.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ve got information from Francis Clousarr, Lije.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What kind of information?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He claims that a Jezebel Baley is a member of a Medievalist society dedicated to the overthrow of the government by force.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Are you sure he has the right person? There are many Baleys.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote There aren\rquote t many Jezebel Baleys.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He used her name, did he?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He said Jezebel. I heard him, Lije. I\rquote m not giving you a second-hand report.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right. Jessie was a member of a harmless lunatic-fringe organization. She never did anything but attend meetings and feel devilish about it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It won\rquote t look that way to a board of review, Lije.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You mean I\rquote m going to be suspended and held on suspicion of destroying government property in the form of R. Sammy?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I hope not, Lije, but it looks awfully bad. Everyone knows you didn\rquote t like R. Sammy. Your wife was seen talking to him this afternoon. She was in tears and some of her words were heard. They were harmless in themselves, but two and two can be added up, Lije. You might feel it was dangerous to leave him in a position to talk. And you had an opportunity to obtain the weapon.\rdblquote\par
Baley interrupted. \ldblquote If I were wiping out all evidence against Jessie, would I bring in Francis Clousarr? He seems to know a lot more about her than R. Sammy could have. Another thing. I passed through the power plant eighteen hours before R. Sammy spoke to Jessie. Did I know that long in advance that I would have to destroy him and pick up an alpha-sprayer out of clairvoyance?\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner said, \ldblquote Those are good points. I\rquote ll do my best. I\rquote m sorry about this, Lije.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes? Do you really believe I didn\rquote t do it, Commissioner?\rdblquote\par
Enderby said slowly, \ldblquote I don\rquote t know what to think, Lije. I\rquote ll be frank with you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then I\rquote ll tell you what to think. Commissioner, this is all a careful and elaborate frame.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner stiffened. \ldblquote Now, wait, Lije. Don\rquote t strike out blindly. You won\rquote t get any sympathy with that line of defense. It\rquote s been used by too many bad eggs.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m not after sympathy. I\rquote m just telling the truth. I\rquote m being taken out of circulation to prevent me from learning the facts about the Sarton murder. Unfortunately for my framing pal, it\rquote s too late for that.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What!\rdblquote\par
Baley looked at his watch. It was 23:00.\par
He said, \ldblquote I know who is framing me, and I know how Dr. Sarton was killed and by whom, and I have one hour to tell you about it, catch the man, and end the investigation.\rdblquote\par
\pard\keepn\pagebb\s1\sb240\sa60\qc\kerning32\b\f2\fs32 Chapter 18\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa240\qc\kerning0\i\fs28 END OF AN INVESTIGATION\par
\pard\fi216\qj\b0\i0\f0\fs24 Commissioner Enderby\rquote s eyes narrowed and he glared at Baley. \ldblquote What are you going to do? You tried something like this in Fastolfe\rquote s dome yesterday morning. Not again. Please.\rdblquote\par
Baley nodded. \ldblquote I know. I was wrong the first time.\rdblquote\par
He thought, fiercely: Also the second time. But not now, not this time, not ...\rdblquote\par
The thought faded out, spluttering like a micropile under a positronic damper.\par
He said, \ldblquote Judge for yourself, Commissioner. Grant that the evidence against me has been planted. Go that far with me and see where it takes you. Ask yourself who could have planted that evidence. Obviously only someone who\rquote d known I was in the Williamsburg plant yesterday evening.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right. Who would that be?\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote I was followed out of the kitchen by a Medievalist group. I lost them, or I thought I did, but obviously at least one of them saw me pass through the plant. My only purpose in doing so, you understand, was to help me lose them.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner considered. \ldblquote Clousarr? Was he with them?\rdblquote\par
Baley nodded.\par
Enderby said, \ldblquote All right, we\rquote ll question him. If he\rquote s got anything in him, we\rquote ll have it out of him. What more can I do, Lije?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Wait, now. Don\rquote t quit on me. Do you see my point?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well, let\rquote s see if I do?\rdblquote  The Commissioner clasped his hands. \ldblquote Clousarr saw you go into the Williamsburg power plant, or else someone in his group did and passed the information along to him. He decided to utilize that fact to get you into trouble and off the investigation. Is that what you\rquote re saying?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s close to it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good.\rdblquote  The Commissioner seemed to warm to the task. \ldblquote He knew your wife was a member of his organization, naturally, and so he knew you wouldn\rquote t face a really close probe into your private life. He thought you would resign rather than fight circumstantial evidence. By the way, Lije, what about a resignation? I mean, if things looked really bad. We could keep things quiet--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not in a million years, Commissioner.\rdblquote\par
Enderby shrugged. \ldblquote Well, where was I? Oh, yes, so he got an alpha-sprayer, presumably through a confederate in the plant, and had another confederate arrange the destruction of R. Sammy.\rdblquote  His fingers drummed lightly on the desk. \ldblquote No good, Lije.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why not?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Too farfetched. Too many confederates. And he has a cast-iron alibi for the night and morning of the Spacetown murder, by the way. We checked that almost right away, though I was the only one who knew the reason for checking that particular time.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote I never said it was Clousarr, Commissioner. You did. It could be anyone in the Medievalist organization. Clousarr is just the owner of a face that Daneel happened to recognize. I don\rquote t even think he\rquote s particularly important in the organization. Though there is one queer thing about him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What?\rdblquote  asked Enderby, suspiciously.\par
\ldblquote He did know Jessie was a member. Does he know every member in the organization, do you suppose?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t know. He knew about Jessie, anyway. Maybe she was important because she was the wife of a policeman. Maybe he remembered her for that reason.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You say he came right out and said that Jezebel Baley was a member. Just like that? Jezebel Baley?\rdblquote\par
Enderby nodded. \ldblquote I keep telling you I heard him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s the funny thing, Commissioner. Jessie hasn\rquote t used her full first name since before Bentley was born. Not once. I know that for certain. She joined the Medievalists after she dropped her full name. I know that for sure, too. How would Clousarr come to know her as Jezebel, then?\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner flushed and said, hastily, \ldblquote Oh well, if it comes to that, he probably said Jessie. I just filled it in automatically and gave her full name. In fact, I\rquote m sure of that. He said Jessie.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Until now you were quite sure he said Jezebel. I asked several times.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner\rquote s voice rose. \ldblquote You\rquote re not saying I\rquote m a liar, are you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m just wondering if Clousarr, perhaps, said nothing at all. I\rquote m wondering if you made that up. You\rquote ve known Jessie for twenty years, and you knew her name was Jezebel.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You\rquote re off your head, man.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Am I? Where were you after lunch today? You were out of your office for two hours at least.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Are you questioning me?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ll answer for you, too. You were in the Williamsburg power plant.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner rose from his seat. His forehead glistened and there were dry, white flecks at the corners of his lips. \ldblquote What the hell are you trying to say?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Weren\rquote t you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Baley, you\rquote re suspended. Hand me your credentials.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not yet. Hear me out.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t intend to. You\rquote re guilty. You\rquote re guilty as the devil, and what gets me is your cheap attempt to make me, me, look as though I were conspiring against you.\rdblquote  He lost his voice momentarily in a squeak of indignation. He managed to gasp out, \ldblquote In fact, you\rquote re under arrest.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  said Baley, tightly, \ldblquote not yet. Commissioner, I\rquote ve got a blaster on you. It\rquote s pointed straight and it\rquote s cocked. Don\rquote t fool with me, please, because I\rquote m desperate and I will have my say. Afterward, you can do what you please.\rdblquote\par
With widening eyes, Julius Enderby stared at the wicked muzzle in Baley\rquote s hands.\par
He stammered, \ldblquote Twenty years for this, Baley, in the deepest prison level in the City.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel moved suddenly. His hand clamped down on Baley\rquote s wrist. He said, quietly, \ldblquote I cannot permit this, partner Elijah. You must do no harm to the Commissioner.\rdblquote\par
For the first time since R. Daneel had entered the City, the Commissioner spoke directly to him. \ldblquote Hold him, you. First Law!\rdblquote\par
Baley said quickly, \ldblquote I have no intention of hurting him, Daneel, if you will keep him from arresting me. You said you would help me clear this up. I have forty-five minutes.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel, without releasing Baley\rquote s wrist, said, \ldblquote Commissioner, I believe Elijah should be allowed to speak. I am in communication with Dr. Fastolfe at this moment--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How? How?\rdblquote  demanded the Commissioner, wildly.\par
\ldblquote I possess a self-contained subethenic unit,\rdblquote  said R. Daneel. The Commissioner stared.\par
\ldblquote I am in communication with Dr. Fastolfe,\rdblquote  the robot went on inexorably, \ldblquote and it would make a bad impression, Commissioner, if you were to refuse to listen to Elijah. Damaging inferences might be drawn.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner fell back in his chair, quite speechless. Baley said, \ldblquote I say you were in the Williamsburg power plant today, Commissioner, and you got the alpha-sprayer and gave it to R. Sammy. You deliberately chose the Williamsburg power plant in order to incriminate me. You even seized Dr. Gerrigel\rquote s reappearance to invite him down to the Department and give him a deliberately maladjusted guide rod to lead him to the photographic supply room and allow him to find R. Sammy\rquote s remains. You counted on him to make a correct diagnosis.\rdblquote\par
Baley put away his blaster. \ldblquote If you want to have me arrested now, go ahead, but Spacetown won\rquote t take that for an answer.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Motive,\rdblquote  spluttered Enderby breathlessly. His glasses were fogged and he removed them, looking once again curiously vague and helpless in their absence. \ldblquote What motive could I have for this?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You got me into trouble, didn\rquote t you? It will put a spoke in the Sarton investigation, won\rquote t it? And all that aside, R. Sammy knew too much.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote About what, in Heaven\rquote s name?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote About the way in which a Spacer was murdered five and a half days ago. You see, Commissioner, you murdered Dr. Sarton of Spacetown.\rdblquote\par
It was R. Daneel who spoke. Enderby could only clutch feverishly at his hair and shake his head.\par
The robot said, \ldblquote Partner Elijah, I am afraid that this theory is quite untenable. As you know, it is impossible for Commissioner Enderby to have murdered Dr. Sarton.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Listen, then. Listen to me. Enderby begged me to take the case, not any of the men who over-ranked me. He did that for several reasons. In the first place, we were college friends and he thought he could count on its never occurring to me that an old buddy and respected superior could be a criminal. He counted on my well-known loyalty, you see. Secondly, he knew Jessie was a member of an underground organization and expected to be able to maneuver me out of the investigation or blackmail me into silence if I got too close to the truth. And he wasn\rquote t really worried about that. At the very beginning he did his best to arouse my distrust of you, Daneel, and make certain that the two of us worked at cross-purposes. He knew about my father\rquote s declassification. He could guess how I would react. You see, it is an advantage for the murderer to be in charge of the murder investigation.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner found his voice. He said, weakly, \ldblquote How could I know about Jessie?\rdblquote  He turned to the robot. \ldblquote You! If you\rquote re transmitting this to Spacetown, tell them it\rquote s a lie! It\rquote s all a lie!\rdblquote\par
Baley broke in, raising his voice for a moment and then lowering it into a queer sort of tense calm. \ldblquote Certainly you would know about Jessie. You\rquote re a Medievalist, and part of the organization. Your old-fashioned spectacles! Your windows! It\rquote s obvious your temperament is turned that way. But there\rquote s better evidence than that.\par
\ldblquote How did Jessie find out Daneel was a robot? It puzzled me at the time. Of course we know now that she found out through her Medievalist organization, but that just shoves the problem one step backward. How did they know? You, Commissioner, dismissed it with a theory that Daneel was recognized as a robot during the incident at the shoe counter. I didn\rquote t quite believe that. I couldn\rquote t. I took him for human when I first saw him, and there\rquote s nothing wrong with my eyes.\par
\ldblquote Yesterday, I asked Dr. Gerrigel to come in from Washington. Later I decided I needed him for several reasons, but, at the time I first called him, my only purpose was to see if he would recognize Daneel for what he was with no prompting on my part.\par
\ldblquote Commissioner, he didn\rquote t! I introduced him to Daneel, he shook hands with him, we all talked together, and it was only after the subject got around to humanoid robots that he suddenly caught on. Now, that was Dr. Gerrigel, Earth\rquote s greatest expert on robots. Do you mean to say a few Medievalist rioters could do better than he under conditions of confusion and tension, and be so certain about it that they would throw their entire organization into activity based on the feeling that Daneel was a robot?\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s obvious now that the Medievalists must have known Daneel to be a robot to begin with. The incident at the shoe counter was deliberately designed to show Daneel and, through him, Spacetown, the extent of anti-robot feeling in the City. It was meant to confuse the issue, to turn suspicion away from individuals and toward the population as a whole.\par
\ldblquote Now, if they knew the truth about Daneel to begin with, who told them? I didn\rquote t. I once thought it was Daneel himself, but that\rquote s out. The only other Earthman who knew about it was you, Commissioner.\rdblquote\par
Enderby said, with surprising energy, \ldblquote There could be spies in the Department, too. The Medievalists could have us riddled with them. Your wife was one, and if you don\rquote t find it impossible that I should be one, why not others in the Department?\rdblquote\par
The corners of Baley\rquote s lips pulled back a savage trifle. \ldblquote Let\rquote s not bring up mysterious spies until we see where the straightforward solution leads us. I say you\rquote re the obvious informer and the real one.\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s interesting now that I look back on it, Commissioner, to see how your spirits rose and fell accordingly as I seemed to be far from a solution or possibly close to it. You were nervous to begin with. When I wanted to visit Spacetown yesterday morning and wouldn\rquote t tell you the reason, you were practically in a state of collapse. Did you think I had you pinned, Commissioner? That it was a trap to get you into their hands? You hated them, you told me. You were virtually in tears. For a time, I thought that to be caused by the memory of humiliation in Spacetown when you yourself were a suspect, but then Daneel told me that your sensibilities had been carefully regarded. You had never known you were a suspect. Your panic was due to fear, not humiliation.\par
\ldblquote Then when I came out with my completely wrong solution, while you listened over trimensional circuit, and you saw how far, how immensely far, from the truth I was, you were confident again. You even argued with me, defended the Spacers. After that, you were quite master of yourself for a while, quite confident. It surprised me at the time that you so easily forgave my false accusations against the Spacers when earlier you had so lectured me on their sensitivity. You enjoyed my mistake.\par
\ldblquote Then I put in my call for Dr. Gerrigel and you wanted to know why and I wouldn\rquote t tell you. That plunged you into the abyss again because you feared--\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel suddenly raised his hand. \ldblquote Partner Elijah!\rdblquote\par
Baley looked at his watch. 23:42! He said, \ldblquote What is it?\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote He might have been disturbed at thinking you would find out his Medievalist connections, if we grant their existence. There is nothing, though, to connect him with the murder. He cannot have had anything to do with that.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote You\rquote re quite wrong, Daneel. He didn\rquote t know what I wanted Dr. Gerrigel for, but it was quite safe to assume that it was in connection with information about robots. This frightened the Commissioner, because a robot had an intimate connection with his greater crime. Isn\rquote t that so, Commissioner?\rdblquote\par
Enderby shook his head. \ldblquote When this is over--\rdblquote  he began, but choked into inarticulacy.\par
\ldblquote How was the murder committed?\rdblquote  demanded Baley with a suppressed fury. \ldblquote C/Fe, damn it! C/Fe! I use your own term, Daneel. You\rquote re so full of the benefits of a C/Fe culture, yet you don\rquote t see where an Earthman might have used it for at least a temporary advantage. Let me sketch it in for you.\par
\ldblquote There is no difficulty in the notion of a robot crossing open country. Even at night. Even alone. The Commissioner put a blaster into R. Sammy\rquote s hand, told him where to go and when. He himself entered Spacetown through the Personal and was relieved of his own blaster. He received the other from R. Sammy\rquote s hands, killed Dr. Sarton, returned the blaster to R. Sammy, who took it back across the fields to New York City. And today he destroyed R. Sammy, whose knowledge had become dangerous.\par
\ldblquote That explains everything. The presence of the Commissioner, the absence of a weapon. And it makes it unnecessary to suppose any human New Yorker had crawled a mile under the open sky at night.\rdblquote\par
But at the end of Baley\rquote s recitation, R. Daneel said, \ldblquote I am sorry, partner Elijah, though happy for the Commissioner, that your story explains nothing. I have told you that the cerebroanalytic properties of the Commissioner are such that it is impossible for him to have committed deliberate murder. I don\rquote t know what English word would be applied to the psychological fact: cowardice, conscience, or compassion. I know the dictionary meanings of all these, but I cannot judge. At any rate, the Commissioner did not murder.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Thank you,\rdblquote  muttered Enderby. His voice gained strength and confidence. \ldblquote I don\rquote t know what your motives are, Baley, or why you should try to ruin me this way, but I\rquote ll get to the bottom--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Wait,\rdblquote  said Baley. \ldblquote I\rquote m not through. I\rquote ve got this.\rdblquote\par
He slammed the aluminum cube on Enderby\rquote s desk, and tried to feel the confidence he hoped he was radiating. For half an hour now, he had been hiding from himself one little fact: that he did not know what the picture showed. He was gambling, but it was all that was left to do.\par
Enderby shrank away from the small object. \ldblquote What is it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It isn\rquote t a bomb,\rdblquote  said Baley, sardonically. \ldblquote Just an ordinary microprojector.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well? What will that prove?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Suppose we see.\rdblquote  His fingernail probed at one of the slits in the cube, and a corner of the Commissioner\rquote s office blanked out, then lit up in an alien scene in three dimensions.\par
It reached from floor to ceiling and extended out past the walls of the room. It was awash with a gray light of a sort the City\rquote s utilities never provided.\par
Baley thought, with a pang of mingled distaste and perverse attraction: It must be the dawn they talk about.\par
The pictured scene was of Dr. Sarton\rquote s dome. Dr. Sarton\rquote s dead body, a horrible, broken remnant, filled its center.\par
Enderby\rquote s eyes bulged as he stared.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote I know the Commissioner isn\rquote t a killer. I don\rquote t need you to tell me that, Daneel. If I could have gotten around that one fact earlier, I would have had the solution earlier. Actually, I didn\rquote t see a way out of it until an hour ago when I carelessly said to you that you had once been curious about Bentley\rquote s contact lenses.--That was it, Commissioner. It occurred to me then that your nearsightedness and your glasses were the key. They don\rquote t have nearsightedness on the Outer Worlds, I suppose, or they might have reached the true solution of the murder almost at once. Commissioner, when did you break your glasses?\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner said, \ldblquote What do you mean?\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote When I first saw you about this case, you told me you had broken your glasses in Spacetown. I assumed that you broke them in your agitation on hearing the news of the murder, but you never said so, and I had no reason for making that assumption. Actually, if you were entering Spacetown with crime on your mind, you were already sufficiently agitated to drop and break your glasses before the murder. Isn\rquote t that so, and didn\rquote t that, in fact, happen?\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote I do not see the point, partner Elijah.\rdblquote\par
Baley thought: I\rquote m partner Elijah for ten minutes more. Fast! Talk fast! And think fast!\par
He was manipulating Sarton\rquote s dome image as he spoke. Clumsily, he expanded it, his fingernails unsure in the tension that was overwhelming him. Slowly, in jerks, the corpse widened, broadened, heightened, came closer. Baley could almost smell the stench of its scorched flesh. Its head, shoulders, and one upper arm lolled crazily, connected to hips and legs by a blackened remnant of spine from which charred rib stumps jutted.\par
Baley cast a side glance at the Commissioner. Enderby had closed his eyes. He looked sick. Baley felt sick, too, but he had to look. Slowly he circled the trimensional image by means of the transmitter controls, rotating it, bringing the ground about the corpse to view in successive quadrants. His fingernail slipped and the imaged floor tilted suddenly and expanded till floor and corpse alike were a hazy mass, beyond the resolving power of the transmitter. He brought the expansion down, let the corpse slide away.\par
He was still talking. He had to. He couldn\rquote t stop till he found what he was looking for. And if he didn\rquote t, all his talk might be useless. Worse than useless. His heart was throbbing, and so was his head.\par
He said, \ldblquote The Commissioner can\rquote t commit deliberate murder. True! Deliberate. But any man can kill by accident. The Commissioner didn\rquote t enter Spacetown to kill Dr. Sarton. He came in to kill you, Daneel, you! Is there anything in his cerebroanalysis that says he is incapable of wrecking a machine? That\rquote s not murder, merely sabotage.\par
\ldblquote He is a Medievalist, an earnest one. He worked with Dr. Sarton and knew the purpose for which you were designed, Daneel. He feared that purpose might be achieved, that Earthmen would eventually be weaned away from Earth. So he decided to destroy you, Daneel. You were the only one of your type manufactured as yet and he had good reason to think that by demonstrating the extent and determination of Medievalism on Earth, he would discourage the Spacers. He knew how strong popular opinion was on the Outer Worlds to end the Spacetown project altogether. Dr. Sarton must have discussed that with him. This, he thought, would be the last nudge in the proper direction.\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t say even the thought of killing you, Daneel, was a pleasant one. He would have had R. Sammy do it, I imagine, if you didn\rquote t look so human that a primitive robot such as Sammy could not have told the difference, or understood it. First Law would stop him. Or the Commissioner would have had another human do it if he, himself, were not the only one who had ready access to Spacetown at all times.\par
\ldblquote Let me reconstruct what the Commissioner\rquote s plan might have been. I\rquote m guessing, I admit, but I think I\rquote m close. He made the appointment with Dr. Sarton, but deliberately came early, at dawn, in fact. Dr. Sarton would be sleeping, I imagine, but you, Daneel, would be awake. I assume, by the way, you were living with Dr. Sarton, Daneel.\rdblquote\par
The robot nodded. \ldblquote You are quite right, partner Elijah.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Then let me go on. You would come to the dome door, Daneel, receive a blaster charge in the chest or head, and be done with. The Commissioner would leave quickly, through the deserted streets of Spacetown\rquote s dawn, and back to where R. Sammy waited. He would give him back the blaster, then slowly walk again to Dr. Sarton\rquote s dome. If necessary, he would \lquote discover\rquote  the body himself, though he would prefer to have someone else do that. If questioned concerning his early arrival, he could say, I suppose, that he had come to tell Dr. Sarton of rumors of a Medievalist attack on Spacetown, urge him to take secret precautions to avoid open trouble between Spacers and Earthmen. The dead robot would lend point to his words.\par
\ldblquote If they asked about the long interval between your entering Spacetown, Commissioner, and your arrival at Dr. Sarton\rquote s dome, you could say--let\rquote s see--that you saw someone lurking through the streets and heading for open country. You pursued for a while. That would also encourage them along a false path. As for R. Sammy, no one would notice him. A robot among the truck farms outside the City is just another robot.\par
\ldblquote How close am I, Commissioner?\rdblquote\par
Enderby writhed, \ldblquote I didn\rquote t--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No,\rdblquote  said Baley, \ldblquote you didn\rquote t kill Daneel. He\rquote s here, and in all the time he\rquote s been in the City, you haven\rquote t been able to look him in the face or address him by name. Look at him now, Commissioner.\rdblquote\par
Enderby couldn\rquote t. He covered his face with shaking hands.\par
Baley\rquote s shaking hands almost dropped his transmitter. He had found it.\par
The image was now centered upon the main door to Dr. Sarton\rquote s dome. The door was open; it had been slid into its wall receptacle along its shining metal runner grooves. Down within them. There! There!\par
The sparkle was unmistakable.\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ll tell you what happened,\rdblquote  said Baley. \ldblquote You were at the dome when you dropped your glasses. You must have been nervous and I\rquote ve seen you when you\rquote re nervous. You take them off; you wipe them. You did that then. But your hands were shaking and you dropped them; maybe you stepped on them. Anyway, they were broken, and just then, the door opened and a figure that looked like Daneel faced you.\par
\ldblquote You blasted him, scrabbled up the remains of your glasses, and ran. They found the body, not you, and when they came to find you, you discovered that it was not Daneel, but the early-rising Dr. Sarton, that you had killed. Dr. Sarton had designed Daneel in his own image, to his great misfortune, and without your glasses in that moment of tension, you could not tell them apart.\par
\ldblquote And if you want the tangible proof, it\rquote s there!\rdblquote  The image of Sarton\rquote s dome quivered and Baley put the transmitter carefully upon the desk, his hand tightly upon it.\par
Commissioner Enderby\rquote s face was distorted with terror and Baley\rquote s with tension. R. Daneel seemed indifferent.\par
Baley\rquote s finger was pointing. \ldblquote That glitter in the grooves of the door. What was it, Daneel?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Two small slivers of glass,\rdblquote  said the robot, coolly. \ldblquote It meant nothing to us.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It will now. They\rquote re portions of concave lenses. Measure their optical properties and compare them with those of the glasses Enderby is wearing now. Don\rquote t smash them, Commissioner!\rdblquote\par
He lunged at the Commissioner and wrenched the spectacles from the other\rquote s hand. He held them out to R. Daneel, panting, \ldblquote That\rquote s proof enough, I think, that he was at the dome earlier than he was thought to be.\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote I am quite convinced. I can see now that I was thrown completely off the scent by the Commissioner\rquote s cerebroanalysis. I congratulate you, partner Elijah.\rdblquote\par
Baley\rquote s watch said 24:00. A new day was beginning.\par
Slowly, the Commissioner\rquote s head went down on his arms. His words were muffled wails. \ldblquote It was a mistake. A mistake. I never meant to kill him?\rdblquote  Without warning, he slipped from the chair and lay crumpled on the floor.\par
R. Daneel sprang to him, saying, \ldblquote You have hurt him, Elijah. That is too bad.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He isn\rquote t dead, is he?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No. But unconscious.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He\rquote ll come to. It was too much for him, I suppose. I had to do it, Daneel, I had to. I had no evidence that would stand up in court, only inferences. I had to badger him and badger him and let it out little by little, hoping he would break down. He did, Daneel. You heard him confess, didn\rquote t you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Now, then, I promised this would be to the benefit of Spacetown\rquote s project, so--Wait, he\rquote s coming to.\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner groaned. His eyes fluttered and opened. He stared speechlessly at the two.\par
Baley said, \ldblquote Commissioner, do you hear me?\rdblquote\par
The Commissioner nodded listlessly.\par
\ldblquote All right, then. Now, the Spacers have more on their minds than your prosecution. If you co-operate with them--\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What? What?\rdblquote  There was a dawning flicker of hope in the Commissioner\rquote s eyes.\par
\ldblquote You must be a big wheel in New York\rquote s Medievalist organization, maybe even in the planetary setup. Maneuver them in the direction of the colonization of space. You can see the propaganda line, can\rquote t you? We can go back to the soil all right--but on other planets.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t understand,\rdblquote  mumbled the Commissioner.\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s what the Spacers are after. And God help me, it\rquote s what I\rquote m after now, too, since a small conversation I had with Dr. Fastolfe. It\rquote s what they want more than anything. They risk death continually by coming to Earth and staying here for that purpose. If Dr. Sarton\rquote s murder will make it possible for you to swing Medievalism into line for the resumption of Galactic colonization, they\rquote ll probably consider it a worthwhile sacrifice. Do you understand now?\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote Elijah is quite correct. Help us, Commissioner, and we will forget the past. I am speaking for Dr. Fastolfe and our people generally in this. Of course, if you should agree to help and later betray us, we would always have the fact of your guilt to hold over your head. I hope you understand that, too. It pains me to have to mention that.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I won\rquote t be prosecuted?\rdblquote  asked the Commissioner.\par
\ldblquote Not if you help us.\rdblquote\par
Tears filled his eyes. \ldblquote I\rquote ll do it. It was an accident. Explain that. An accident. I did what I thought right.\rdblquote\par
Baley said, \ldblquote If you help us, you will be doing right. The colonization of space is the only possible salvation of Earth. You\rquote ll realize that if you think about it without prejudice. If you find you cannot, have a short talk with Dr. Fastolfe. And now, you can begin helping by quashing the R. Sammy business. Call it an accident or something. End it!\rdblquote\par
Baley got to his feet. \ldblquote And remember, I\rquote m not the only one who knows the truth, Commissioner. Getting rid of me will ruin you. All Spacetown knows. You see that, don\rquote t you?\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote It is unnecessary to say more, Elijah. He is sincere and he will help. So much is obvious from his cerebroanalysis.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right. Then I\rquote ll go home. I want to see Jessie and Bentley and take up a natural existence again. And I want to sleep. --Daneel, will you stay on Earth after the Spacers go?\rdblquote\par
R. Daneel said, \ldblquote I have not been informed. Why do you ask?\rdblquote\par
Baley bit his lip, then said, \ldblquote I didn\rquote t think I would ever say anything like this to anyone like you, Daneel, but I trust you. I even--admire you. I\rquote m too old ever to leave Earth myself, but when schools for emigrants are finally established, there\rquote s Bentley. If someday, perhaps, Bentley and you, together ...\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Perhaps.\rdblquote  R. Daneel\rquote s face was emotionless.\par
The robot turned to Julius Enderby, who was watching them with a flaccid face into which a certain vitality was only now beginning to return.\par
The robot said, \ldblquote I have been trying, friend Julius, to understand some remarks Elijah made to me earlier. Perhaps I am beginning to, for it suddenly seems to me that the destruction of what should not be, that is, the destruction of what you people call evil, is less just and desirable than the conversion of this evil into what you call good.\rdblquote\par
He hesitated, then, almost as though he were surprised at his own words, he said, \ldblquote Go, and sin no more!\rdblquote\par
Baley, suddenly smiling, took R. Daneel\rquote s elbow, and they walked out the door, arm in arm.\par
\pard\f1\par
\par
\par
\pard\qc\b\i\f0 THE END.\par
\par
\par
}
 