{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang3081\deflangfe3081{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\nowidctlpar\fi142\lang1033\f0\fs20 Invader - Isaac Asimov's Robots In Time - William F Wu\par
\page Don\rquote t miss the first five books in Isaac Asimov\rquote s Robots In Time\par
\par
PREDATOR\par
The robot called Hunter\rquote s first target is hiding somewhere in the age of dinosaurs. He must catch a robot forced to fight for survival\'85a robot turned Predator.\par
\par
MARAUDER\par
Hunter\rquote s second mission sends his team to an age of pirates and cutthroats. Their target is a robot determined to survive\'85a robot branded Marauder.\par
\par
WARRIOR\par
In the chaos of the Roman Empire\rquote s collapse, Hunter and his team search for a robot who will risk all of history to escape them\'85a robot Warrior.\par
\par
DICTATOR\par
In the midst of the Second World War, Hunter and his team must outwit Nazi soldiers and Soviet agents to accomplish their mission\'85in the time of the Dictator.\par
\par
EMPEROR\par
Hunter and his team chase their prey to ancient China during the reign of Kubla Khan\'85China\rquote s greatest Emperor.\par
\page ISAAC ASIMOV\rquote S\par
ROBOTS\par
IN TIME\par
\par
by\par
WILLIAM F. WU\par
\page THE LAWS OF ROBOTICS\par
\par
1.\par
A robot may not injure a human being, or through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm.\par
\par
2.\par
A robot must obey the orders given it by human beings,  except where such orders would conflict with the First Law.\par
\par
3.\par
A robot must protect its own existence, as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Law.\par
\page ISAAC ASIMOV\rquote S\par
ROBOTS\par
IN TIME\par
\par
INVADER\par
\par
WILLIAM F. WU\par
Copyright \'a9 1994\par
\par
Databank by Matt Elson\par
\page This novel is dedicated to the memory of my maternal grandmother,\par
Mae Franking,\par
Who passed her English and Scottish descent to me and became the first novelist in the family.\par
\par
\par
Special thanks are due during the time of writing this novel to Dr. William Q. Wu and Cecile F. Wu, my parents, for indulging my lifelong interest in history; Riucia Mainhardt; Bridgett and Marty Marquardt;  Michael D. Toman; and John Betancourt, Leigh Grossman, Keith R. A. DeCandido,  and Byron Preiss.\par
\page 1\par
\par
R. Hunter, a humaniform robot, waited as Steve Chang looked up at him angrily. They stood in the small office of Mojave Center Governor, in the underground city of Mojave Center. Steve began to pace.\par
\ldblquote I hardly slept at all, Hunter,\rdblquote  Steve growled. \ldblquote Jane could be anywhere in the world, at any time in history. That\rquote s the toughest kidnapping to solve anyone could imagine. We have to start looking for her. Once we get going, I\rquote ll get back to normal.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You know that R. Ishihara cannot allow her to be harmed under the First Law of Robotics,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote That will not change, no matter where they are.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I know, I know-\rquote A robot may not injure a human being, or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm,\rquote  \ldblquote  Steve droned impatiently. \ldblquote But Ishihara is working for Wayne Nystrom, renegade roboticist,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote That tells us how great Ishihara\rquote s judgment must be. I don\rquote t trust him to follow the First Law responsibly.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Dr.  Nystrom apparently convinced Ishihara to help him under the First Law,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote Once he had done that, Ishihara had no choice but to obey him under the Second Law. However, Ishihara will protect both Jane and Dr. Nystrom from immediate harm.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote So who cares if the Second Law of Robotics says, \lquote A robot must obey the orders given it by human beings except where such orders would conflict with the First Law,\rquote  if the human giving orders can\rquote t be trusted?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I do not predict that Jane will be with them long,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote Wayne Nystrom will be searching for MC 6 in the same time and place we will. That narrows the search for Jane considerably. Our search for MC 6 will take us to them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well,  we know about when and where to find them, then,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote So let\rquote s go!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not so fast.\rdblquote  Hunter turned and eased his body into the desk chair.\par
\ldblquote Why not?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We must prepare this mission with the same care we used in the others. Since we are going back to fifth-century Britain, I will retain my present appearance.  It is consistent with the gene pool of the local people we will meet.\rdblquote  A brawny six feet six inches tall with short blond hair and blue eyes, Hunter had been designed with the ability to change his shape and appearance at will.\par
\ldblquote All right, fine. That\rquote s your department; it won\rquote t matter to me. What else do we have to do?\rdblquote  Steve put both fists on his hips and glared at Hunter. \ldblquote I\rquote ve already taken the vaccines you arranged this morning. I assume you\rquote ve prepared period clothing, just as you did before.\rdblquote\par
\par
\ldblquote Yes.  I took the clothing to the Bohung Institute while you were trying to sleep.  However, I have hired Harriet Lane, a new historian, to join us.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well,  where is she?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote She is due here in a few minutes; I arranged for her to receive her vaccines from R. Cushing, the medical robot who tended your head injury after our fourth mission. Together, we will have to decide how to explain your Chinese descent to Britons who have never heard of China or seen anyone of your race and ethnicity.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well,  we told the ancient Germans in Roman times that I was a slave from the eastern Mediterranean. That should be good enough.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Perhaps.  My internal clock says the time is 7:38 P.M. While we wait for Harriet, I must report to the Governor Robot Oversight Committee.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right, I\rquote ll shut up.\rdblquote  Steve folded his arms across his chest and continued pacing anxiously. \ldblquote I just hope she shows up soon.\rdblquote\par
Nodding,  Hunter called the city computer and instructed it to contact the four members of the Governor Robot Oversight Committee for him. Then he waited while they were located for the conference call. In front of him, Steve still stomped back and forth across the small room.\par
Hunter could not avoid making reports to the Oversight Committee. He had been designed and built specifically for the committee in order to search for Mojave Center Governor, one of six experimental gestalt robots who were supposed to be running certain cities. All the other Governor robots had mysteriously shut themselves down. However, MC Governor had suddenly divided into the six component gestalt humaniform robots out of which he was comprised and vanished.  No one knew why.\par
Dr.  Wayne Nystrom, an eccentric roboticist, had designed and built the Governor robots. However, the Governor Robot Oversight Committee had been studying their performance and judging their efficiency. When the Governors began to fail,  Wayne Nystrom had apparently felt that his career was in danger. He had been trying to beat Hunter to each of the component robots of MC Governor in order to dismantle and examine them for the mysterious flaw that had shut down the first five Governors before Hunter could reassemble MC Governor and turn him over to the Oversight Committee to complete their study.\par
When Hunter had arrived in Mojave Center, he had learned that MC Governor had modified an existing piece of technology in the Bohung Institute into a time travel device. Then each of his component robots had miniaturized themselves to microscopic size and fled back in time to a different era, intending to hide forever.  Jane believed their motivation was the Third Law of Robotics, \ldblquote  A robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Law.\rdblquote  Unknown to them, however, a flaw in the miniaturization caused each of them to return to full size at different times, wherever they happened to be.\par
At that point, they had to masquerade as human. Two dangers presented themselves as a result. The first was that they could alter the direction of history by living throughout the centuries and causing people to act in different ways,  driven by the Three Laws of Robotics. Hunter had to prevent that in order to avoid harm to all humans by having the timeline of history significantly changed.\par
In addition, when the component robots or their material remains reached the approximate time they had left, they exploded with nuclear force. As Hunter prepared to go back with his team to find MC 6, he also was monitoring the news broadcasts of a mysterious nuclear explosion in south-central England. Only his team members knew that it had been caused by MC 6 exploding.\par
Now Wayne had a robot named R. Ishihara helping him. Originally, Hunter had instructed Ishihara to apprehend Wayne if he returned from the past to the time travel sphere in Room F-12 of the Bohung Institute. Somehow, the roboticist had used an argument involving the Three Laws of Robotics to induce Ishihara to cooperate with him.\par
On five separate missions, Hunter had led his team of humans in pursuit of the other five component robots. All five had been caught. Now they were here in the office of MC Governor, where they stood merged and shut down, waiting for the last component robot in order to complete MC Governor again. Once he had been put back together, the Oversight Committee would investigate why the other Governors had shut down and why MC Governor had divided and fled.\par
Hunter had reported to the Governor Robot Oversight Committee on his progress after each mission. However, he felt that the existence of time travel held incalculable potential harm for all humans. For that reason, he had kept it a secret from all except the humans and robots whose help he required.\par
Certainly if the scientists on the Oversight committee learned of the time travel, it would never remain a secret. The discovery would be too valuable for a committee of scientists to ignore. Wayne Nystrom had discovered MC Governor\rquote s development of time travel on his own, before Hunter had learned of it. Hunter could not do anything about that.\par
\ldblquote Hunter,  city computer calling. The Governor Robot Oversight Committee is ready for your conference call.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Thank you. Please connect me.\rdblquote\par
As before, the faces of the four committee members appeared on Hunter\rquote s internal video screen in split portrait shots from their various locations. Everyone exchanged greetings. Then Hunter began his report.\par
\ldblquote The first five component robots are in custody and merged,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s great,\rdblquote  said Dr. Redfield, the tall blonde. \ldblquote I suppose this has been an easy assignment for you. You began less than two weeks ago.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I must repeat once again that past success does not predict the difficulty of the final mission,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote As always, I cannot promise that the remainder of my work will be completed within a similar period of time.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Where did this mission take place?\rdblquote  Dr. Chin asked. \ldblquote Previously, you have reported quite a wide range of locations around the world.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote In northern China,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote On the border of Mongolia.\rdblquote  He remained deliberately vague in his reports. So far, his reserve had forestalled persistent questioning from the committee members.\par
\ldblquote Northern China.\rdblquote  Professor Post nodded, idly stroking his black beard for a moment.  \ldblquote Well, that\rquote s interesting. Do you have a lead on MC 6?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I must investigate the British Isles,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote This is preliminary information.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Which one?\rdblquote  Dr. Chin asked.\par
\ldblquote I shall begin in England. On previous missions, a certain amount of travel has been involved.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Wait a minute,\rdblquote  said Dr. Chin. \ldblquote Haven\rquote t you heard about the big explosion? Won\rquote t that interfere with your search?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I will take it into account as I make my plans,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote Do you think MC 6 may have been destroyed in the explosion?\rdblquote  Professor Post asked calmly.\par
\ldblquote It is an inescapable consideration,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote However, I can only proceed and find what i may.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I am not surprised,\rdblquote  said Dr. Khanna, in his Hindi accent. \ldblquote However, your work has been completed very quickly to date. We are all impressed.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I must repeat that I can make no guarantee of my schedule to come,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote Yes,  I heard you the first time,\rdblquote  said Dr. Khanna, with a trace of annoyance in his tone. \ldblquote You repeat that warning in every report. However, you continue to complete each mission in the same length of time. What would make this final mission any different?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The explosion, and its after-effects,\rdblquote  said Dr. Redfield. \ldblquote He may have a harder time now.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote My original point remains valid,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote I have no prediction about the challenges that my team will face. Anything can happen.\rdblquote  Hunter realized that he had made a mistake. Before, he had never told the committee members that he was going to an area where a nuclear explosion had occurred.\par
\ldblquote We note your caution,\rdblquote  said Dr. Chin. \ldblquote And as always, we wish you good luck.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That will be fine, Hunter,\rdblquote  said Dr. Redfield. \ldblquote I suggest we allow you to get to work.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Thank you,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote I am ready to begin. Do you have any final questions?\rdblquote\par
No one did.\par
\ldblquote Good luck,\rdblquote  said Dr. Chin.\par
\ldblquote Thank you. Good-bye.\rdblquote  Hunter broke the connection and turned to Steve, speaking aloud. \ldblquote Report completed.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good!\rdblquote   Steve glanced impatiently at the closed door of the office. \ldblquote So where\rquote s our historian?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I expect her at any time.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right, all right. What do we do in the meantime? Do we know what MC 6\rquote s specialty was, within MC Governor\rquote s responsibilities? Jane always seemed to think that was important.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I have that information,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote The data the committee originally gave me about MC Governor provides the original divisions of expertise among the gestalt robots. Since Jane correctly identified the specialties of the first five component robots, I know by process of elimination that MC 6 is the portion of MC Governor that specialized in maintaining social stability among humans.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yeah?  What does that mean, exactly?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote In Mojave Center, that meant keeping track of various human needs, not only for survival and protection from harm, but for emotional satisfaction: leisure pursuits, choices of education and career, and career organization to encourage challenges and accomplishments.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Okay.  But Jane also used to guess that a component robot\rquote s choice of where to hide related to his specialty in Mojave Center.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,  I remember. Using the same sort of logic Jane expressed prior to earlier missions, I surmise that MC 6 therefore deliberately fled with the question of social instability in mind. However, England is an unusual case; since 1066, it has had a relatively high degree of stability for an Old World nation, despite some occasional turbulence. However, I calculate that MC 6 will return to his full human size from miniaturization in the late fifth century, in a time of extreme social turmoil and political instability. Since he did not plan that,  the timing is ironic, to say the least.\rdblquote\par
Steve started to answer. When he heard footsteps approaching the office, he stopped and glanced at Hunter, who nodded. Steve opened the door.\par
\ldblquote Oh-you startled me.\rdblquote  Harriet smiled and came in as Steve stepped back. She was tall and slender, about forty years old, with short, wavy brown hair.\par
Hunter introduced them. \ldblquote Harriet specializes in late Roman and post-Roman Britain.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I love the period,\rdblquote  Harriet said cheerfully. \ldblquote And I\rquote ve had my dinner and my vaccinations, as you instructed. What comes next?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Have you both successfully taken your sleep courses in ancient British and Latin?\rdblquote   Hunter asked.\par
\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote   said Harriet. \ldblquote I was familiar with both languages, but the course will help me speak them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I took the British, too,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote And I updated the Latin from our third mission because Hunter said it had changed some in the centuries that had passed. But what is this British language, anyhow? Did it turn into English later?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not really,\rdblquote  said Harriet. \ldblquote It\rquote s the language that was spoken in Britain before the Romans arrived, and it coexisted with Latin during their occupation. It later evolved into Welsh, Cornish, and Breton. But what we call English was based originally on Anglo-Saxon and Norman French.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But we\rquote ll still need the Latin this time, too?\rdblquote  Steve asked.\par
\ldblquote We\rquote ll find a lot of Latin in the time we\rquote re visiting,\rdblquote  said Harriet. \ldblquote But it doesn\rquote t stay for many more years. Except for some monasteries and place names, Latin disappears and then reenters English again much later.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh.  Shows what I know about it.\rdblquote  Steve turned to Hunter. \ldblquote Have you told Harriet about Wayne and Ishihara? How they\rquote re trying to beat us to MC 6 and why?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,  he has,\rdblquote  said Harriet. \ldblquote He also told me that they kidnapped your friend Jane on your last mission. I\rquote m sure you\rquote re worried about her.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well,  yeah. That\rquote s true.\rdblquote  Steve looked at Hunter. \ldblquote Can we go yet?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We will go to the Bohung Institute. The Security vehicle is waiting outside.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good.\rdblquote\par
Hunter drove them through the calm, clean streets of the underground city. Steve sat next to Harriet, too tense to speak. The electric motor of the vehicle hummed softly as they drove by humans and robots on their daily routines who were unaware that the secret of time travel, with all its potential danger to change history, lay in their midst.\par
Before the first mission, Hunter had closed the Bohung Institute. He had arranged for a detail of Security robots to guard it. They allowed his team inside, of course, and they walked to Room F-12.\par
\par
2\par
\par
Steve looked around the familiar room. Room F-12 was a large facility that housed an opaque sphere about fifteen meters in diameter.  With its console, the sphere could both miniaturize humans and robots to microscopic size and also send them back through time, in either normal or microscopic condition. Countertops lined the rest of the room, filled with computers, monitors, a communication console, and miscellaneous office equipment.\par
Hunter introduced Harriet to R. Daladier, a robot he had left in the room to apprehend Wayne Nystrom and Ishihara if they returned unexpectedly.\par
Steve waited anxiously, knowing the team would have to discuss the mission further and change clothes before Hunter would actually take them back in time.\par
\ldblquote I arranged to have period costumes made for us earlier today,\rdblquote  said Hunter. He pointed to four neatly folded stacks of clothing on one counter. Four sets of leather boots stood next to them. \ldblquote Please check them for authenticity. No synthetics have been used.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I see four outfits,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote We only have three of us this time.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We will take a full costume for Jane,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote I expect to find her, but she may need period clothing. She left China in the time of Kublai Khan wearing a robe and trousers from that culture.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Right.\rdblquote\par
Harriet lifted a long, brown tunic and shook it out. \ldblquote Tunics for you two. Wool, of course; that\rquote s right. A rope belt. Loosely cut, longer than kneelength. It looks fine.\rdblquote  She lifted another. \ldblquote This white undertunic is made of cotton. It was expensive in ancient Britain. A sign of prosperity. And I see the shift I will wear under my wool gown is also made of cotton.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Underclothing of cotton will be fur more comfortable for you two than wool, fur, or any other acceptable choice,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote I believe the comfort will increase your efficiency. Besides, suggesting a hint of prosperity can be part of the roles we will play.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote As you decide.\rdblquote  Harriet lifted her gown, also of brown wool. \ldblquote Full-length, loose,  and blousy... long sleeves. Yes, this will be fine, too.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What about the boots?\rdblquote  Steve asked.\par
Harriet picked up one of them. \ldblquote About these roles, Hunter. What are they?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote From the historical data I have taken from the city library, I suggest that I play the role of a horse trader from Gaul. You two will masquerade as my wife and servant. Unless you find a flaw in this plan, I would like to say that I wish to move away from the crumbling, unstable Roman Empire in Gaul and raise my horse herds in Britain.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Go on.\rdblquote  She put down the first boot and studied another one.\par
\ldblquote I learned that southern England in this time has ideal horse-grazing land and that Artorius, the man upon whom the legend of King Arthur was based, led a troop of cavalry. He would have to be concerned about a reliable source of mounts for his men.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Hold it,\rdblquote  said Steve, grinning in spite of his eagerness to get on their way. \ldblquote We aren\rquote t taking any horses with us. You can\rquote t horse-trade without them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I propose to say that I am looking for land in Britain before bringing my herd over the Channel,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote Would this sound reasonable?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The boots are acceptable, too.\rdblquote  Harriet paused thoughtfully as she put the last boot down. \ldblquote Yes, your story will be plausible, though you could improve on it.  However, bringing something to trade would be more convincing. You could be an ironworker, a trader in silver, a soldier...the list of possibilities is very long.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I chose the role after due consideration,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote I must playa role that will carry some prestige without having to take material objects into the past.  We must take some coins and our clothing, but every item we take increases the chance of influencing history in a way we do not intend and cannot predict. The role of soldier might put Steve into greater danger than I would prefer.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Ah-you\rquote re a believer in chaos theory as applied to the events of history.\rdblquote  She smiled,  amused.\par
\ldblquote I no longer believe in the most pure and extreme form of chaos theory,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote My team has made five missions into the past without altering our own time in any way that I can detect.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good.  Then you\rquote re coming around to my way of thinking about this.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not entirely,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote I tell each historian I hire that I do not know where the threshold of significant change lies. If I can go into the past as a horse trader so that we do not have to take any merchandise with us, then we take the least risk.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I do not believe in it at all,\rdblquote  said Harriet, casually. \ldblquote But you\rquote re the boss. I accept your priorities.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I still say a horse trader would take horses with him,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote Even just one stallion to show off. The people we see are going to expect that.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We can claim we brought a couple of horses that were lost in a storm as we sailed across the Channel,\rdblquote  said Harriet. \ldblquote That was not unheard-of in these times.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Am I correct in concluding that Artorius must value the source of his mounts?\rdblquote   Hunter asked.\par
\ldblquote Oh,  yes. The single greatest advantage the Britons have over the Saxons is their training in Roman cavalry strategy and tactics. You see, the Saxons in this time are unmounted but numerous. Artorius had to keep his men supplied with good, healthy horses.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good,\rdblquote   said Hunter. He pointed to three cloth pouches on the counter. \ldblquote We also have a small pouch of coins from this period for each of us to carry.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Late Roman coins?\rdblquote  She pulled one open and drew out one of the coins. \ldblquote Since we will claim to have come from Gaul, that would be our currency. Britain primarily still uses the same, but some native coins had to be minted, too.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Our coins are all late Roman. Also, we have a small bag for Steve to carry. It contains a change of underclothing for each of you and some bread, cheese, and dried meat. I do not know how long it will take us to find food for you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It shouldn\rquote t be too hard,\rdblquote  said Harriet. \ldblquote Southern England remained heavily Romanized culturally and densely populated for many years after the Romans left Britain on its own.\rdblquote\par
Steve picked up the bag and looked inside. \ldblquote Okay. I\rquote ll put Jane\rquote s clothes and boots in here.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I will prepare the console. Please take turns changing your clothes in the next room.\rdblquote\par
Steve waited while Harriet changed first. Hunter walked to the console that controlled the sphere and altered the settings. Steve began to pace again.\par
\ldblquote Are you taking us back at night again?\rdblquote  Steve asked, glancing up at Hunter. \ldblquote Since we\rquote re leaving in the evening?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I feel this works best,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote We arrive in near-darkness to avoid notice.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote d rather go back in daylight so we can start looking for Jane right away.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You will be ready to sleep in several more hours,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote If we go back at a time that conflicts with your own sleep schedule, then you and Harriet will be inefficient. Matching your schedule to arrive in daylight would now require waiting until tomorrow morning to leave.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well-forget it, then. Let\rquote s just go.\rdblquote\par
Harriet returned from the other room, wearing her long gown and leather boots. \ldblquote How do I look?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Very authentic,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
Harriet laughed lightly. \ldblquote I don\rquote t think that\rquote s what I was asking, but thanks, anyway.\rdblquote\par
Steve grinned but said nothing as he went to change in the adjoining room. He emerged wearing the long tunics and boots, which felt similar to the tunic he had worn to ancient Germany in Roman times.\par
\ldblquote The console is ready,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote Harriet, you should know that I have the belt unit that will trigger it, even from the time to which we are going. After we arrive, I will carry it in a hollow space within my torso.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right.\rdblquote  Harriet nodded, tugging at her gown to straighten it over her rope belt. \ldblquote Hunter, when we first discussed the mission, you told me we would visit the site of the archaeological dig now known as Cadbury Castle in the time of Artorius. How about telling us now exactly when in time our destination is?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And tell me where Cadbury Castle is,\rdblquote  Steve added. \ldblquote I\rquote m still in the dark.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Cadbury Castle lies in Somerset, in central southern England,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote The modern town of South Cadbury lies immediately to the north. Farther north, but within sight, is the city of Glastonbury. We will arrive on the evening of April 21,  in A.D. 459.\rdblquote\par
Steve grinned. \ldblquote I still don\rquote t know where we\rquote re going, except that we\rquote ll be in England.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It won\rquote t be the England most people think of,\rdblquote  said Harriet \ldblquote The Roman Empire left Britain to fend for itself against invading barbarians in A.D. 410. The same Celtic tribes who lived there before the Romans arrived still remained, but now they had a strong Roman cultural and military influence. By A.D. 459, when we\rquote ll arrive, the Britons will have been resisting the Saxons who had invaded and settled along the Humber and Wash rivers in southeastern Britain for half a century. The failing Roman Empire still just barely exists across the English Channel in Gaul.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I think I got the gist of that.\rdblquote  Steve shrugged, still grinning.\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m sure we\rquote ll all manage just fine.\rdblquote\par
Hunter opened the sphere. He helped Harriet climb inside first. By this time, the routine was familiar to Steve; as always, he slid down the curved interior surface to the bottom, where Harriet already sat. Hunter climbed in, closing the sphere after him to leave them in darkness.\par
\par
Jane Maynard landed with a thump on wet grass. A cold drizzle fell from a dark,  overcast sky. She pushed herself up and brushed her long, brown hair out of her eyes. Wayne Nystrom got up on her right; Ishihara, still holding her right arm in one hand, remained on her left.\par
\ldblquote Foul weather,\rdblquote  Wayne muttered.\par
\ldblquote Where are we now?\rdblquote  Jane demanded. A few moments ago by subjective measuring, Wayne and Ishihara had forcibly taken her away from the palace grounds of Kublai Khan in thirteenth-century China. First, to escape Hunter, they had simply jumped a few hours ahead, to the peasant village where they had been staying. Then Wayne had taken a few moments to reset his belt unit before bringing them here,  wherever it was.\par
\ldblquote We\rquote re in Britain, two-thirty in the afternoon of April 19, A.D. 459,\rdblquote  said Wayne.\par
Ishihara stood, then helped Jane to her feet. \ldblquote This cool, damp weather is potentially harmful to humans. We must find shelter for you, especially before nightfall.\rdblquote\par
Jane looked around, tugging her Chinese robe tightly around her. Beneath it, she also wore matching baggy trousers. Shepherds sat huddled under trees in the distance, surrounded by their flocks in the drizzle; none were looking this way. Most of the terrain was open, rolling grassland, with clumps of trees scattered here and there. Some tilled fields lay among them, with young shoots too small to identify from here. In the distance, she could see two high hills,  one much farther away than the other. A small village lay on the plateau of the nearer hill, and an outer wall of earth and wood surrounded its base.\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s why I brought us here in the middle of the afternoon,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote We have some time before sundown.\rdblquote  He smiled suddenly. \ldblquote We have even more time before Hunter gets here.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What do you mean?\rdblquote  Ishihara asked.\par
\ldblquote I guess it doesn\rquote t matter if Jane hears this. I estimate that MC 6 will return to his full size in a couple of days. Hunter has repeatedly arrived within twenty-four hours of the time when the component robots return to normal size.\rdblquote   Wayne handed the belt unit to Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote What about it?\rdblquote  Jane asked casually, as though the point meant nothing. She watched Ishihara put the belt unit inside his Chinese peasant blouse. Then, under the cloth, he opened his torso and hid the unit inside.\par
\ldblquote Therefore,  we should have a few days to learn our way around, establish some contacts, and be prepared for both MC 6 and Hunter\rquote s team before they arrive.\rdblquote  Wayne shook his head. \ldblquote I should have tried this before, but in places like a buccaneer town and the Russian front in World War II, I didn\rquote t want to stay any longer than I had to. And in the dinosaur age and in ancient Germany, I hadn\rquote t figured it out yet.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But you planned to make friends with those peasants in China?\rdblquote  Jane asked.\par
\ldblquote No,  it just worked out that way,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote But now, when Hunter arrives, he must consider your welfare, too. Combining some earlier preparations with that problem for him gives me the best chance I have had yet. Ishihara, I instruct you to shut off your radio reception now and keep it off until I order otherwise.\rdblquote\par
Jane understood. When Hunter arrived, he might attempt to communicate directly with Ishihara. Wayne did not want any communication between them.\par
Wayne looked around. \ldblquote Ishihara, suggest where we should go.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I propose we walk to the nearest peasant hut.\rdblquote  He pointed to a hut from which a narrow, lazy trail of smoke drifted low in the air. A narrow road meandered among the hills, passing by the hut. \ldblquote Before we can communicate with more than gestures, I will have to begin learning the local language. If the response is hostile, we can walk along the road to meet someone else, perhaps in that village.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Maybe we should try the village first. That looks a more likely place for MC 6 to show up.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote A village offers more potential harm, as well,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote If we can find lodging elsewhere, then we can visit the village later.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yeah,  okay.\rdblquote\par
Ishihara led them through the drizzle toward the hut he had chosen. He did not bother to take Jane\rquote s arm. She walked behind him, with Wayne next to her.\par
Jane knew Ishihara had no reason to fear she would run away from them right now.  Until she knew that Hunter and Steve had arrived, and where they were, she had nowhere to go. She would certainly be safer in Ishihara\rquote s company than anywhere else here, and she saw no chance she could get the belt unit out of Ishihara\rquote s torso.\par
For now, she would just have to bide her time.\par
\par
3\par
\par
As they approached the hut, Jane could smell bread baking. She was not hungry, but she liked the familiar aroma. A donkey grazing behind the hut stopped and looked up at them. Near it, a small farm wagon had been left under a tree. The entire scene made the locale seem less strange.\par
\ldblquote Hold it,\rdblquote  said Wayne, stopping. \ldblquote Does anybody know what language they speak here?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No,\rdblquote   said Ishihara.\par
Jane said nothing. She blinked drizzle out of her eyes and rubbed her arms together.\par
\ldblquote My history isn\rquote t too good,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote Are the Romans still here?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The Roman Empire ceased to defend Britain in A.D. 410,\rdblquote  said Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote If the Romans left, I suppose no one speaks Latin here any more,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote I took that sleep course in Latin for that trip to Roman Germany. You accessed Latin then, too. Maybe some people here still speak it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We can make an attempt to communicate with Latin,\rdblquote  said Ishihara.\par
Jane had also taken the Latin sleep course before the mission to ancient Germany.  Since Wayne and Ishihara did not ask her about it, however, she chose not to volunteer the fact. She had no specific plan in mind, but keeping her facility with Latin a secret seemed like a good idea.\par
\ldblquote Please go first,\rdblquote  Wayne said to Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote Of course.\rdblquote  Ishihara walked toward the front door of the hut.\par
Suddenly a couple of dogs barked in the distance behind them. Ishihara stopped and turned. Jane looked, also, and saw two shepherds hurrying down a nearby hill from their flock of sheep. Their dogs, both large and black, ran ahead of them.\par
\ldblquote We must wait here,\rdblquote  said Ishihara quickly. \ldblquote Do not alarm the dogs by moving suddenly. I will speak to the men when they reach us.\rdblquote\par
A woman came to the door of the hut. Four children peered from around her long,  full skirt made of some rough cloth. The youngest was a toddler, the eldest maybe ten or eleven years old. None of them spoke. All of them stared cautiously at the strangers.\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s our clothes, I guess,\rdblquote  Said Wayne quietly. \ldblquote Jane has a fancy Chinese robe and pants and we have Chinese peasant outfits. We\rquote ll never explain them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Maybe we can use the clothes to our advantage,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote I\rquote m richly dressed by peasant standards. They may be afraid of us as strangers, but they might not want to turn away an important lady. And only our clothing is strange. We looked more out of place in China, no matter what kind of clothes we wore.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well,  that\rquote s true,\rdblquote  Wayne said slowly. He turned to study her face. \ldblquote But why are you so willing to cooperate all of a sudden?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I need food and shelter as much as you do. We can\rquote t just spend the next few days standing out in the rain.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yeah.\rdblquote\par
Suddenly the two dogs ran up, still barking. They dodged and danced around, cautious but not attacking. Jane slowly extended one hand for them to sniff. Instead, they both jumped back.\par
\ldblquote I suggest we masquerade as a wealthy lady and her two servants,\rdblquote  said Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote Whatever you think will work,\rdblquote  said Wayne.\par
\ldblquote We are fortunate to have no weapons,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote We will appear as less of a danger.\rdblquote\par
As the shepherds drew near, they slowed to a walk. Jane saw that one was only twelve or thirteen years old. The other appeared to be his father.\par
Ishihara greeted them in Latin, speaking in a formal tone. \ldblquote Good day. We are strangers here, seeking shelter from the rain.\rdblquote\par
The shepherd showed no sign of understanding him. He nodded politely and said something they could not understand. Then he waited expectantly.\par
Ishihara lifted his hand, feeling the drizzle, and spoke in Latin again. \ldblquote We would like to have shelter from the rain, at least for a short time.\rdblquote  He gestured toward the hut and patted his abdomen. \ldblquote If you can spare any small amount of food, it would be very welcome.\rdblquote\par
The shepherd nodded, speaking again, and pointed to the village on top of the hill in the distance.\par
\ldblquote He wants us to go to the village.\rdblquote  Ishihara continued speaking in Latin, since Wayne and Jane both understood him. \ldblquote I do not see how we can force ourselves on this family without causing them harm.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote They must be more scared than they seem,\rdblquote  said Jane.\par
\ldblquote We don\rquote t have any money to pay for food,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote Or a place to stay.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Maybe Ishihara can do chores in exchange for hospitality.\rdblquote  Jane glanced around.  Behind the hut, she saw a small stack of cut firewood and a loose pile of uncut tree branches near it. Some unsplit logs lay scattered around. \ldblquote Here-tell him I have a bad leg.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Huh?\rdblquote   Wayne looked at her.\par
Jane turned toward the woman in the doorway. With a hopeful smile, Jane patted her leg under her long robe and took a limping step toward the hut. The peasant woman looked down and suddenly shooed her children out of the way and gestured to Jane to come inside.\par
As Jane feigned a limp to the doorway, her hostess pulled a small, three-legged stool forward. She took Jane\rquote s arm and helped her to the stool, speaking in a soothing tone. Jane sat down out of the drizzle but just inside the hut, where she could see the others.\par
Her husband watched cautiously for a moment, not speaking. Then his wife spoke sharply to him. He nodded and spoke to his eldest son. The boy nodded and plodded back up the hill toward the flock of sheep, calling one of the dogs to follow him. The other dog walked to Jane, its tail wagging, and sniffed her hand.\par
\ldblquote The man\rquote s not going to leave the hut while we\rquote re here, is he?\rdblquote  Wayne grinned. \ldblquote I guess I wouldn\rquote t, either. But now what do we do?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Ishihara,  cut some wood for them,\rdblquote  Jane said quietly. \ldblquote Don\rquote t ask about it, because I think hospitality will force them to decline your offer. Just begin.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I do not see an ax or any other tool to use,\rdblquote  said Ishihara, looking around the small pile of wood that was already cut.\par
Jane looked around the hut. \ldblquote I can see some axes just inside the door here.\rdblquote\par
Ishihara leaned inside, picked up a long-handled ax, and carried it to the uncut wood.  Without a word, he picked up an unsplit log and began to split it. The shepherd watched him for a moment, then walked to the doorway. He picked up another ax and joined Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote I guess he figures if he can\rquote t tend the sheep, he might as well get something done,\rdblquote  said Wayne.\par
The peasant woman stood over Jane and spoke. From her tone and facial expression,  Jane felt she was asking a question, but none of her words meant anything to Jane. All Jane could do was shrug helplessly.\par
\ldblquote Ygerna.\rdblquote   The woman pointed to herself. \ldblquote Oh-your name is Ygerna?\rdblquote  Jane touched her own chest with her finger. \ldblquote  Jane.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Jane.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote   Jane nodded, smiling.\par
Her hostess knelt and patted her own leg where Jane had indicated her leg was sore.  She spoke again, asking the same question as before. When Jane shrugged apologetically, Ygerna stood up and went outside.\par
\ldblquote Would they object if I came in out of the rain?\rdblquote  Wayne asked. \ldblquote I don\rquote t want to mess up a good situation, but I guess they do have the idea that you\rquote re important and we\rquote re your servants.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I think you\rquote re right.\rdblquote  Jane smiled. \ldblquote Come on in. We\rquote ll see what she does. As long as we\rquote re considerate, I think we\rquote ll be all right.\rdblquote\par
Wayne came inside the hut. He squatted down across the doorway from Jane.\par
The children stared at both of them, whispering among themselves, but they focused most of their attention on Jane\rquote s Chinese robe.\par
Ygerna bustled back inside, holding what appeared to be two handfuls of mud, grass,  and other plants. She carried this mixture to the back of the hut, where she knelt with her back to Jane. Her children gathered around her, watching to see what she was going to do.\par
As Ygerna knelt in front of a narrow brick fireplace on the far side from the door, Jane looked around the hut for the first time. A portion of the hut had been sectioned off by a curtain hanging from the ceiling. Since she could see small sleeping pallets on the near side of the fireplace, she guessed that the curtain hid their parents\rquote  pallet. One rough wooden table stood in the center of the room, with wooden stools around it. Above the fire, a small metal door was inset into the chimney. Ygerna poured water from an earthenware pitcher into a metal pot and hung it on a hook over the fire.\par
A few minutes later, Ygerna stirred the mud packs into the steaming, small metal pot. Then she carried the pot to Jane and knelt at her feet. Her children followed her but hung back slightly, still watching with fascination.\par
Ygerna gently moved Jane\rquote s robe back over the leg Jane had pretended was hurting her.  Carefully, Ygerna slipped the leg of Jane\rquote s trousers up. As Jane watched in silence, Ygerna straightened her leg slightly and then began to smear the mud poultice on it. Jane realized that the purpose of this treatment, aside from any superstition the culture might have, was to apply and hold the heat against her injury.\par
Feeling trapped, Jane said nothing. When Ygerna looked up and asked her another unintelligible question, Jane nodded and smiled appreciatively. Over Ygerna\rquote s shoulder, Wayne caught Jane\rquote s eye and smiled with amusement.\par
When Ygerna had finished, she quietly lifted the pot and carried it outside. She dumped the remaining mud onto the ground and set down the pot to catch rainwater. Then, catching the drizzle on her hands, she wiped them off.\par
Ishihara and Ygerna\rquote s husband continued to chop and split wood rhythmically.\par
Ygerna called out to her husband, who stopped swinging his ax and turned to look at her. They spoke briefly, then he nodded and brought his ax back to the hut.  Leaving it inside the doorway, he walked back toward his flock of sheep. The dog that had remained at the hut trotted after him.\par
\ldblquote I guess they decided we\rquote re okay,\rdblquote  said Wayne, looking out the doorway.\par
Ygerna walked back inside the hut and knelt by the fire again.\par
Ishihara paused and turned to speak to Wayne and Jane. \ldblquote I have made a small amount of rudimentary progress communicating with Emrys.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Is that his name?\rdblquote  Jane asked. \ldblquote Hers is Ygerna. That\rquote s all I\rquote ve learned.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,  he is named Emrys. He knows a few Latin words and phrases after all. When I first spoke to him, he kept that a secret, but he has opened up now. His limited Latin facilitated our communication. I now know a few words and phrases in his own language.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Do you know what he\rquote s doing now?\rdblquote  Wayne nodded toward Emrys as he hiked up the slope toward his flock of sheep. \ldblquote Where\rquote s he going?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I believe Ygerna told him to bring back a sheep to slaughter for dinner,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote We must wait and see what he does to know if I understood their conversation correctly.\rdblquote\par
Jane looked up the hill sharply. \ldblquote Then we\rquote ve made a change in their lives-a big one.  Every one of their sheep must be valuable to them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Your apparent status as a lady has made the sacrifice worthwhile, I believe,\rdblquote  said Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote Hold it,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote We can\rquote t possibly eat a whole sheep, even the whole bunch of us.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote His family can eat the rest, or sell it,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote But maybe we should move on tomorrow morning. We could be much too disruptive to this family.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We still have no money to buy food elsewhere,\rdblquote  said Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t think we\rquote re going to do any real damage,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote This kind of thing isn\rquote t likely to change history. Come on, Jane-one sheep?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We should be careful, at least,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote As Hunter keeps saying, no one knows where the threshold of change lies. What if some descendants of Emrys and Ygerna are important at some point in English history? Or even on the world stage someday, even centuries later? And what if we disrupt their immediate family in some way that alters their health or survival?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You have a point,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote However, if we can return the value of their sacrifice, we lower the likelihood of changing their lives because of the sheep.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What do you mean?\rdblquote  Wayne asked.\par
\ldblquote I will cut as much wood as I can without revealing that I am not human. This will save Emrys from the chore. If we can help in other ways, I suggest we do so.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yeah,  I get it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You were right,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote Look.\rdblquote\par
Up on the hill, the dog Emrys had taken with him had cut one sheep out of the flock. Emrys had already started back and the dog was herding the single sheep back down the slope with him. Emrys\rquote s son and the other dog had moved behind him and prevented the rest of the flock from following.\par
A metallic squeak sounded in the hut. Jane turned and saw Ygerna open the small metal door in the chimney over the fire. Using a cloth to protect her hands,  Ygerna pulled out a loaf of bread in a pan. She set it down on the hearth and closed the oven door.\par
When Emrys arrived with the sheep, he took it behind the hut. Jane felt relieved.  Butchering sheep would be normal for him, but she did not want to watch.  Ishihara continued to cut and split logs.\par
Jane sat patiently, glad to be out of the drizzle and relieved that they would be fed and, she felt certain, given shelter for the night. On the other hand, the realization that she was trapped with Wayne and Ishihara for at least several more days finally sank in. Even when Hunter arrived, she might not be able to get away immediately. Surviving in this time without money to spend would require genuine effort.\par
Ygerna kneaded more bread dough and put it in the bread pan. While it rose she went outside and around to the back. Her children trailed after her, but Wayne and Jane stayed inside the hut.\par
After a few minutes Ygerna came back inside, carrying a large cut of mutton. She knelt again at the hearth and began cutting it into smaller pieces with a large knife. Outside the hut again, she filled a large cookpot with water from a cistern and carried it back to the fire. She hung the pot over the fire and dropped the chunks of mutton into the water. In a few minutes, the water began to boil.\par
\ldblquote Smells horrible,\rdblquote  Wayne whispered.\par
\ldblquote The meat can\rquote t be bad,\rdblquote  said Jane quietly. \ldblquote It\rquote s really fresh. Maybe mutton always smells like that. I\rquote ve never had any.\rdblquote\par
With effort, Emrys carried a large, bulging cloth bag to a tree and threw a rope over a low-hanging branch. From the size of the burden and the blood soaking the bag, Jane saw that it held the sheep carcass. He hoisted the bag into the air, high enough to keep the dogs away from it.\par
Jane understood that the cool temperature would preserve it for a while. It still looked like too much meat for his family alone to eat before it spoiled.  Obviously, he had the same problem every time he slaughtered a sheep, so he would have some normal routine to avoid wasting the meat. She wondered what it would be.\par
\par
4\par
\par
The drizzle continued through the afternoon. As the day cooled, the wind came up and the drizzle turned to rain. Emrys called for his son to bring the flock back to a small pen behind the hut. Then the boy joined the family inside. Ishihara went on chopping wood.\par
Emrys started to close the door of the hut against the rain. With a questioning glance at Jane, he paused to point to Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote Ishihara,  come in,\rdblquote  Jane said in English. \ldblquote If you were human, you\rquote d be exhausted by now.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course.\rdblquote  Ishihara brought his ax, stopping to wipe the mud from his feet on a patch of grass before he came inside the hut. Then he dried the ax blade on a rag that hung on a hook next to the other ax.\par
Just as Emrys closed the door, Jane saw that Ishihara had stacked more new firewood than Emrys had cut and split before they arrived.\par
Once Emrys had closed the door, the fire warmed the hut quickly. Ygerna ladled chunks of boiled mutton onto wooden plates that already held pieces of bread. She took one first to Jane, then served her supposed servants. Emrys received his dinner next, followed by Ygerna and the children.\par
By now Jane was very hungry. She did not really like the mutton, but she knew that Emrys and Ygerna had sacrificed a sheep for their benefit, so she ate it all.  The bread, chewy and dense, tasted better than it looked. After everyone had eaten, Ygerna served some sort of herbal tea in wooden cups.\par
Jane and Wayne did not speak. However, Ishihara pointed to objects around the hut and asked the children to tell him what they were called. Sometimes Emrys and Ygerna, laughing, helped them.\par
\ldblquote Ishihara seems to be learning to speak with them quickly,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote I guess his knowledge of Latin helps, but I wonder how thoroughly he can pick up their native language.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He does very well,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote He learned rudimentary Chinese quickly because he can apply linguistic principles from the languages he knows to a new language.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I see.\rdblquote  Jane nodded. Since Ishihara had no memory lapses of the kind humans routinely had in the learning process, once he learned patterns and vocabulary,  he immediately possessed full use of them.\par
Ishihara turned to Wayne. \ldblquote They want to know where we came from. What shall I say?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We have to justify our Chinese clothing,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote That is, we have to explain why it\rquote s different. I doubt they ever heard of China.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Maybe you can just tell them we came by ship across the Channel,\rdblquote  said Wayne.\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s it,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote Tell them we were shipwrecked by a storm.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I understand,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote This will explain why we have no belongings or money.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yeah,\rdblquote   said Wayne. \ldblquote It\rquote s perfect. That\rquote s why a lady with servants could be broke.\rdblquote\par
Ishihara spoke to their hosts, including the children, in short phrases sprinkled with Latin. Ygerna, in particular, asked more questions. Finally she and Emrys both nodded in understanding.\par
For the night, Jane was given the children\rquote s sleeping pallets. The children moved behind the curtain with their parents. Emrys gave Wayne and Ishihara clean wool blankets to roll up in on the floor.\par
Jane bundled up on the sleeping pallet. The hut remained warm and cozy from the fire. She fell asleep to the sound of rain on the roof.\par
In the morning, Jane awoke to the sound of the children talking and giggling.  Ygerna hustled them outside; when Jane opened her eyes, she saw through the open doorway that the rain had stopped, though gray clouds still covered the sky. Under her blanket, she carefully arranged her robe in its proper position,  then got up to find the out house.\par
Outside,  Wayne was splashing water on his face at the cistern. Ishihara had already begun to chop wood again. The air was cool and brisk.\par
When Jane returned to the hut, Ygerna was stirring a pot of hot porridge over the fire. She served wooden bowls of the thick porridge to everyone around the table. Jane called in Ishihara, in order to continue his masquerade as a human.\par
\ldblquote Now what do we do?\rdblquote  Wayne asked quietly in English. \ldblquote Are we going to have to leave now?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t know,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote Maybe we shouldn\rquote t put too much burden on one family.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Should I ask?\rdblquote  Ishihara asked.\par
\ldblquote We should be careful how we phrase the question,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote We don\rquote t want to insult them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote They probably assume we want to get on the road to our ultimate destination,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote They heard last night that we were shipwrecked and left with nothing,  but we still must have been going somewhere.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good point,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote So where are we going? We\rquote d better have our story straight.\rdblquote\par
Ygema and Emrys listened curiously, watching them as they all ate.\par
\ldblquote I only know the year and our location,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote I have no idea what\rquote s going on in history now. Where could we have been going? Maybe London?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I can\rquote t help,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote This is why Hunter keeps hiring historians to take with him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I have some rudimentary history of this time, but no more,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote The Romans settled London several centuries ago under the name Londinium, but it\rquote s a long way from here. We can\rquote t actually go there if we\rquote re going to find MC 6 in this area.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We better say we were coming to this area all along,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote That will explain why we won\rquote t go very far. But we don\rquote t know where we are, do we?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote On the modern map, yes,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote But I know very little about significant locations in this time.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Ask Emrys,\rdblquote  said Jane.\par
\ldblquote What\rquote s that going to accomplish?\rdblquote  Wayne snickered. \ldblquote He already knows we\rquote re lost.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Exactly.  And no matter what he says, we\rquote ll tell him this is our destination.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. He turned to Emrys and spoke briefly in a mixture of Latin and British. Then he switched back to English. \ldblquote The village on top of the highest hill is Cadbury. The hill itself is called Cadbury Tor. This is the home of a man named Artorius Riothamus.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Cadbury what?\rdblquote  Wayne asked.\par
\ldblquote Tor.  It means a high hill in the local language.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Is MC 6 going to show up there?\rdblquote  Jane asked.\par
\ldblquote I believe so,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote These component robots have been continually drawn to people of power in the hope, I judge, of influencing them to do less harm to the humans within their power.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then Cadbury Tor really is our destination,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote Tell him that.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And add that we cannot pay for lodging because of the shipwreck,\rdblquote  Jane added.\par
Ishihara spoke to Emrys again. The shepherd responded, nodding, and gestured outside. He grinned and gave Ishihara a friendly slap on the shoulder.\par
\ldblquote He has complimented my ability to cut firewood,\rdblquote  said Ishihara.\par
Jane smiled, struggling to suppress a laugh.\par
\ldblquote Emrys wants to go to Cadbury today to sell the rest of the sheep carcass and some of the extra firewood I have cut. He says he knows that this \lquote humble hut,\rquote  as he calls it, is not good enough for a lady such as Jane, but he has thanked me for the labor I have saved him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Do you think we could stay here another night, if necessary?\rdblquote  Wayne asked.\par
\ldblquote I think if we expressed interest, and I continue to cut wood for him or find other ways to help him, we would be welcome,\rdblquote  said Ishihara.\par
Jane was relieved to hear that, but said nothing.\par
\ldblquote Good,\rdblquote   said Wayne. \ldblquote Tell him we\rquote ll be happy to go to Cadbury with him. If we can\rquote t find a place to stay there, then we can talk to him about coming back.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Tell Ygerna that my leg is well, and thank her for the mud poultice,\rdblquote  said Jane.  \ldblquote Otherwise, I\rquote ll have to fake a limp all day.\rdblquote\par
Ishihara spoke again to Emrys and Ygerna. After breakfast, Emrys sent his eldest son out again with their dogs to take the flock for the day. Then, at Emrys\rquote s direction, Ishihara helped him load firewood and the bagged sheep carcass into the donkey cart.\par
Jane looked around the countryside in the brisk morning air. Shepherds led their flocks out again in the distance. Smoke rose from the other huts. Life here, at least today, appeared calm and stable.\par
While Emrys hitched the donkey, Ygerna and the younger children came out to watch with Jane and Wayne. She pointed to the cart and spoke sharply to Emrys.\par
He nodded and spoke to Ishihara, who began rearranging the wood in the cart.\par
\ldblquote What\rquote s wrong?\rdblquote  Wayne asked quietly. \ldblquote What does Ygerna want?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote She told Emrys we must see that the lady can ride in the cart,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote I will form a seat for her with the wood.\rdblquote\par
When the cart was ready, Ishihara lifted Jane into the cart. She found her footing on the uneven firewood and sat down. Once she had settled into the seat he had made, she found that it was actually comfortable.\par
The sheep carcass lay in the front, near her feet. She was glad Emrys had put it in the cloth bag. From her high seat on the cart, she looked down at Wayne and Ishihara.\par
Ishihara turned to Wayne. \ldblquote Emrys has room for one more next to him on the driver\rquote s bench. I will walk, of course.\rdblquote\par
Wayne nodded and climbed up next to Emrys.\par
As Emrys shook the reins to drive the donkey, Jane looked down at Ygerna and the children. The kids waved shyly. She waved back, smiling.\par
The donkey strained under the load but pulled it forward. The cart creaked slowly out to the road. Ishihara walked near the rear, next to Jane.\par
When they reached the road, Jane saw that it was soft and muddy from yesterday\rquote s drizzle. However, she did not see any tracks in it; the mud had not been stirred up. The donkey\rquote s hooves and the wheels of the cart sank into it somewhat, but did not get stuck.\par
Jane enjoyed the slow, quiet ride. Now that her immediate worries about shelter,  food, and safety had been satisfied, she relaxed. She could not plan her escape from Wayne and Ishihara in any detail until she knew that Hunter\rquote s team had arrived in this time, and where they were located. For now, she had nothing to do but observe whatever she could for future reference.\par
Emrys and Wayne could not make casual conversation, so they did not speak; Jane had no desire to talk to Wayne unless she had to. The cart swayed gently as the donkey plodded slowly along. Jane watched Cadbury village as they drew closer.\par
A wall ringed the village on the plateau. The fact that the village was protected this way, and lay on the flat top of a high tor surrounded by earthwork ramparts at the base of the tor, told her that this area was not always as peaceful as it was today. She remembered that MC 6\rquote s specialty in Mojave Center had been social stability, and wondered what had drawn him here.\par
The journey to the base of the tor took over an hour. By that time, they had passed a couple of people walking along the road. Other people, some of them driving carts or riding horseback, came and went from the tor. As Jane saw the open gate in the earthworks clearly, she looked first at the donkey, then down at Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote Is this little donkey going to make it home again? He must be worn out.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Emrys expects to sell the wood and the meat. The return load will be much lighter.\rdblquote\par
Sentries at the gate glanced at the cart and waved them through without stopping them,  though they stared in wonder at Jane in her Chinese robe. Emrys drove the cart up a steep slope to the top of the tor. Jane saw Wayne looking around with interest and did the same.\par
The defensive earthworks turned out to be more than a single wall. Four concentric walls ringed the base and the lower portion of the slope. Starting just inside the gate, cobblestones paved the road.\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s bigger than it looked from outside,\rdblquote  said Jane, as the donkey began pulling the cart up the steep angle. \ldblquote Ishihara, how big is this place?\rdblquote\par
Ishihara scanned the area briefly. \ldblquote I cannot see the far side of the tor, but if the shape of its base as a whole is roughly a circle, I estimate that outer wall encloses approximately seven hectares.\rdblquote\par
Up ahead, the road led through an open, nearly square gatehouse in the high wall that surrounded the summit and the village within it. Sentries held spears lazily on the top of the wall, talking among themselves. Jane thought the wall had been constructed of wood until the cart passed through it. Then she found that only a breastwork of wood faced the outside; the bulk of the wall was made of unmortared stone.\par
Inside the wall, they found themselves in a bustling village. Jane turned and looked up at the inside of the wall. Now she could see that the sentries stood on top of a wooden platform that ringed the top of the stone wall, with the wooden breastwork rising high enough to protect them from attackers who might have crossed the first four earthen ramparts on the lower slope. All around the village, the interior side of the wall was designed the same way.\par
\ldblquote It looked so modest from a distance,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote This is pretty impressive.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I estimate the perimeter of this wall to be over three-quarters of a kilometer,\rdblquote   said Ishihara. \ldblquote Since the wall has neither straight sides nor represents a circle, my approximation is quite rough.\rdblquote\par
On the far side of the main gate, a two-story hall built of timbers rose over the rest of the village. Emrys turned the cart down a narrow side street, but Jane continued to look at the hall. If MC 6, after returning to his full size, was going to seek the seat of power, he would probably find it inside that hall.\par
Jane saw that Wayne also had taken a second glance at the hall. He almost certainly had reached the same conclusion, but she said nothing. Maybe something else was on his mind. In any case, MC 6 was still microscopic, possibly somewhere on the ground at their feet this very moment.\par
Emrys drew up the cart and greeted a couple of men behind a booth. Chunks of meat layout on a wooden counter, with flies buzzing over them. The men called out heartily and waved for him to step down.\par
As he did so, Jane realized that the men at the booth and most of the other villagers nearby were all staring at her. Then she saw that they looked just as curiously at Wayne and Ishihara, in their more modest Chinese peasant clothes.  None of the villagers spoke, however.\par
\par
5\par
\par
Jane watched in silence as Emrys drew the cloth bag back from the sheep carcass. The other men examined the meat as Emrys talked,  and then they unloaded the carcass and carried it to their booth. One of them carefully counted a few coins into Emrys\rquote s hand. He slapped the other man on the shoulder with a quick smile and mounted the cart again.\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s interesting to watch,\rdblquote  Jane said to Ishihara. \ldblquote In all the times and places we\rquote ve visited, dickering over small business transactions seems to be about the same.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote   said Ishihara.\par
Emrys shook the reins. This time he drove the donkey around a corner and followed the narrow, crooked streets to the main doors of the large hall. He spoke briefly to a sentry, who slipped inside.\par
\ldblquote I wonder who lives here,\rdblquote  Jane said casually to Ishihara. She did not want to express too much interest in the building, for fear of alerting Ishihara and Wayne to her belief that MC 6 would eventually come here. Even if they had reached the same conclusion, she could pretend she had not. \ldblquote I guess, Emrys knows they burn a lot of wood in a building this size.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I expect so.\rdblquote  Ishihara changed languages and spoke to Emrys, who answered at some length.\par
Wayne turned in the seat to look at Ishihara. \ldblquote What did he say?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Emrys says this is the palace of Artorius Riothamus,\rdblquote  said Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote Artorius is a Latin name,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote Is he a Roman warlord who stayed behind or something?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote   \lquote Riothamus\rquote  seems to mean \lquote High King,\rquote  \ldblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote He is also called Artorius the \lquote Dux Bellorum.\rquote  \ldblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s Latin for \lquote War Leader,\rquote  \ldblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote But what does it mean as a title?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I presume that not every High King leads his men out to war personally,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote However, that is merely my own surmise.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We\rquote re roboticists, not historians,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote Ishihara, do you have any history at all that pertains to this time and place?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Very little,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote However, I believe that Artorius the High King may be the man upon whom the legend of King Arthur is based.\rdblquote\par
Wayne scowled. \ldblquote This place doesn\rquote t look much like the Camelot I learned about as a kid.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The legend was built by storytellers and poets and novelists over many centuries,\rdblquote   said Jane.\par
A tall, burly man dressed in a worn leather tunic came outside with the sentry and several other men. The tall man spoke to Emrys briefly, then nodded. The other men started to approach the cart but stopped, looking at Jane.\par
\ldblquote Emrys has sold the entire cartload of wood,\rdblquote  said Ishihara, raising his arms to lift Jane. \ldblquote I will help you down.\rdblquote\par
Jane stood up and let Ishihara move her to the ground. As the workmen began carrying armloads of wood into the palace, the first man counted out a handful of coins into Emrys\rquote s palm. Emrys opened a leather pouch at his belt and slipped the coins inside.\par
Jane remained with Ishihara, looking around the village. People filled the narrow streets in every direction. She saw booths and shops offering food, clothing,  pottery, and leather goods for sale.\par
When the wood had been unloaded, Emrys spoke to Ishihara and waved for Jane and him to get into the cart. Ishihara lifted Jane back into the empty cart, then climbed in after her. Emrys started the donkey again.\par
\ldblquote He is going to buy us clothes,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote He says he will do this as his appreciation for my help.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Thank him again for his hospitality,\rdblquote  Jane suggested. \ldblquote We were trying to pay him back, after all.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I did,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote I think he may also be embarrassed by our clothes. He will be happier once we blend in with everyone else.\rdblquote\par
First Emrys took them to a shop that sold used women\rquote s clothes. Jane found that all the gowns were made of wool. She chose a simple brown one. In a stall in the rear, she changed out of her outer Chinese robe, but kept the underrobe that Hunter had provided to make the Chinese robe more comfortable. It protected her from the scratchy wool of her new gown.\par
Emrys dickered with the shopkeeper and paid for the gown. Jane carried her Chinese robe and trousers out over her arm. Then Emrys drove the cart to another shop that sold only men\rquote s tunics.\par
Jane stood patiently by the cart as Wayne and Ishihara tried on tunics and leggings.  This would have been an ideal moment to escape them, if she had anywhere to go.  However, Wayne and Ishihara knew as well as she did that Hunter had not arrived yet.\par
After Emrys paid for the new tunics, he drove to another street where food was for sale at each stall. He bought a bag of flour and a small earthenware jar of sea salt. Then he treated his guests to a midday meal of mutton stew and fresh buns.\par
Jane decided that Ishihara\rquote s help had not made a big difference in Emrys\rquote s life.  Although they had certainly changed his life today, she felt he was simply taking a normal day in the village. He was probably doing what he would have whenever he had come into the village next.\par
Jane decided to take her Chinese robe back to the hut and give it to Ygerna as a gift. If Ygerna did not want to wear it, she might be able to use the material to sew something else. Women here did not seem to wear trousers, but Jane felt that Ygerna could use the material to make something useful for herself or for her children.\par
After they had finished eating, they all mounted the cart again. Emrys drove them out of the village, back down the cobbled road to the base of the tor. Jane leaned against the back of the cart and gazed at the peaceful countryside. This time, Ishihara rode in the front of the cart behind the front seat. No one spoke until the cart had passed through the main gate of the outer earthwork.  Then Emrys spoke over his shoulder to Ishihara.\par
Emrys and Ishihara conversed for several moments.\par
\ldblquote What is it?\rdblquote  Wayne asked. \ldblquote Are we going somewhere else today?\rdblquote\par
Jane sat up, straining to hear.\par
\ldblquote No,\rdblquote   said Ishihara. \ldblquote We are returning to his hut. However, he remembers that in years past, the palace of Artorius requires the most wood when soldiers are gathering here in the spring. They must be fed and kept warm at night.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What soldiers?\rdblquote  Wayne asked.\par
\ldblquote He says that every spring, soldiers from allover the land of the Britons come here from their winter homes. During the winter, only Artorius\rquote s personal troop lives here. Then, as spring progresses, Artorius will gather his army and lead it against the Saxons.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote So is Emrys one of these soldiers?\rdblquote  Wayne asked. \ldblquote Is he going to report in?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No,\rdblquote   said Ishihara. \ldblquote He says that if the palace needs so much wood now, they will need meat, too. Instead of waiting until the soldiers arrive, he wants to drive some of his flock back here tomorrow and sell the sheep ahead of his fellow shepherds. The others are still waiting to hear that the men have moved back to the palace.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That one building can\rquote t hold a whole army,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote How many are coming?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That is unclear,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote However, the seven hectares of the enclosed tor offer a wide expanse of open land below the walled village. I expect his soldiers sleep out there.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yeah,  that makes sense.\rdblquote\par
Jane did not move or speak, but she felt her heart beating faster with excitement.  Wayne expected MC 6 to return to full size tomorrow, and that mean Hunter would probably reach the same conclusion. If Hunter\rquote s team arrived tomorrow, then Wayne and Ishihara would want to ride back to the village with Emrys. If they took her, she could look for an opportunity to escape them, or at least to alert Hunter to her whereabouts. If they left her in the hut, she would simply leave after they had gone. She only had to hope that Wayne would not order Ishihara to stay at the hut with her.\par
Wayne said nothing more.\par
Jane wondered if Hunter would think that Ishihara\rquote s labor at Emrys\rquote s woodpile was going to create too great a change in the lives of Emrys and his family. The coins he had received today, and the food, were not too extravagant. If he got the jump on the other shepherds, however, he might become substantially more wealthy than he would have been if Ishihara had not cut all the extra firewood.\par
At first, she could not reach any conclusion about it. Ishihara did not seem disturbed by the problem. Then she realized that Emrys still could sell only the wood and sheep he already owned. Maybe he would only benefit modestly from Ishihara\rquote s help.\par
Jane smiled to herself. Tomorrow she would look for Hunter at the tor.\par
\par
Steve felt himself tumble gently on his back to damp, soft ground. Overhead, low,  gray clouds covered the sky. In the west, a diffuse glow revealed the setting sun behind the clouds.\par
He pushed himself up to a sitting position. The land nearby combined rolling hills with occasional stands of trees. On some distant hills, he saw flocks of sheep with shepherds and dogs.\par
\ldblquote You are both unharmed?\rdblquote  Hunter looked at them as he stood up.\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m fine,\rdblquote  said Steve.\par
\ldblquote Yes,  of course,\rdblquote  said Harriet cheerfully. \ldblquote Mm, smell that rich earth. Springtime in England. It\rquote s so green and fertile here.\rdblquote\par
Hunter helped her to her feet. \ldblquote I will begin calling Ishihara at intervals. I do not expect him to respond, even if he is here, but I must attempt to reach him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why wouldn\rquote t he answer you?\rdblquote  Harriet asked.\par
\ldblquote Wayne will almost certainly instruct him either to shut off his reception or to listen but not answer. Whatever plan Wayne has in mind will rely on evading us.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t see a castle,\rdblquote  said Steve, suddenly alarmed. \ldblquote Are we in the wrong place?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No.\rdblquote   Harriet pointed to a large hill not too far in the distance. Large earthen ramparts ringed its base. A small walled town sat on its summit. \ldblquote In the medieval sense, no castle ever stood at Cadbury. The modern term, Cadbury Castle, refers to the entire walled tor and its village. While we remain in this time, we might call it Cadbury Tor, instead.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote So that\rquote s where we\rquote re going?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote   said Hunter. \ldblquote It is farther than it looks. We must begin.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Okay.\rdblquote   Steve hoisted the cloth bag over his shoulder. \ldblquote Lead the way.\rdblquote\par
Hunter led them across the open grassland toward a narrow dirt track that wound toward the tor. As they walked, Steve looked up at the tor again. Some people rode horseback, drove wagons, or plodded out of the main gate. He supposed they were on their way home to other villages or huts in the countryside. Others walked or rode into the tor from outside, including two men in steel caps holding spears as they rode.\par
\ldblquote Is that what a Roman fortress here looked like?\rdblquote  Steve asked. \ldblquote It resembles the temporary camps we saw the Roman legions build in Germany, but this one looks permanent. I thought the Romans would build something more impressive than this.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote This is a post-Roman construction,\rdblquote  said Harriet. \ldblquote The village on the plateau is fortified in part by unmortared stone, including Roman masonry brought from elsewhere. The gatehouse has touches of Roman architecture, too. But the overall design is Celtic.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You mean now that the Romans don\rquote t rule here anymore, the Britons are doing everything their way again?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote In practical matters, Britons never forgot their own traditions,\rdblquote  said Harriet.  \ldblquote Further, funding was an issue. Roman administrators at the height of their power could pay many men to quarry, move, and cut stone, and hire others to build with it. Post-Roman Briton rulers had to make do with ramparts of rammed earth.\rdblquote\par
Steve nodded. She pointed to a similar hill much farther in the distance to the north. \ldblquote That\rquote s Glastonbury Tor. It still exists in our own time, as well.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote So with the Romans gone, the Britons are back where they started in fighting the Saxons?\rdblquote  Steve asked. \ldblquote Except for what you said about Roman cavalry tactics?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not completely. The Britons still have some advantages from their Roman cultural experience, including roads, cities, and towns. However, hordes of Saxons have already settled along the eastern coast.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You said this Artorius, who uses Roman cavalry tactics, is the historical basis for King Arthur. Back in Room F-12, we agreed to pretend we wanted to sell horses to him. So he rules here? Or what?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Artorius is a charismatic cavalry captain with some Roman-style training. He has become Riothamus, or High King, of the Britons by leading the Celtic fight for their homeland against the Saxons.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If the Saxons landed on the eastern coast, along the English Channel, why is he here?\rdblquote  Steve asked. \ldblquote If we\rquote re in what\rquote s central southern England in our own time, then we\rquote re a long way from the Channel.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s right,\rdblquote  said Harriet. \ldblquote You see, the Saxons have been coming for many decades.  They have conquered and settled considerable territory on the eastern side of Britain.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right, I get it. Now the Britons are fighting the Saxons along some boundary that runs through the middle of the country.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.  Of course, the boundary is jagged and uneven, usually represented by rivers or ridges. And because of constant fighting, it is in flux throughout these years.  Artorius had to establish his base far enough behind the border to have a wide buffer zone.\rdblquote\par
Steve nodded. \ldblquote Since the Saxons are on foot, it would take them a lot longer to march all the way here than it would take his cavalry to ride out to meet them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Correct.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Hunter,  I have to ask you the question that comes up in every mission,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote We know that MC 6 will return to full size around here somewhere, but exactly what\rquote s he going to do? Where should we look for him?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That is usually Jane\rquote s area of expertise, of course,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote Without a roboticist to call upon, I will have to make a judgment. Based on my experience in how Jane has made her earlier appraisals, I expect that MC 6 will want to stop the war between the Britons and the Saxons that causes so much suffering.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yeah,  that sounds like what she\rquote d say,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote We found MC 3 and MC 4 trying to stop wars, too. Of course, we prevented that.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We must prevent MC 6 from doing it, as well,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote According to the history I took from the city library, Artorius held the Saxons at bay during his lifetime but they eventually overwhelmed his successors. If MC 6 succeeds in working out a long-term settlement, however, the England of medieval,  Renaissance, and ultimately modern times will never develop, deeply changing the course of history.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh,  piddle.\rdblquote  Harriet laughed lightly. \ldblquote That possibility is preposterous.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It is?\rdblquote  Steve looked at her in surprise. Her bluntness startled him. \ldblquote Why?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You see, the Saxons, Angles, and Jutes invaded Britain because of tremendous population pressure on the Continent north of the Roman Empire and their displacement by the movement of more powerful tribes, such as the Franks and the Goths.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why did they come to Britain in particular?\rdblquote  Steve asked. \ldblquote Couldn\rquote t changes in what happens here cause them to go somewhere else?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote As a matter of fact, they moved into Gaul in this era, as well, to settle on the Loire,\rdblquote  said Harriet. \ldblquote But by comparison, Britain was lightly populated at the time. The desperation of the Saxons to migrate and the comparatively modest numbers of the Britons to protect their island dictated this period of British history. No agreement among individuals could stop these forces.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That makes sense to me,\rdblquote  said Steve. He liked the logic of this argument. It fit the fact that the team\rquote s appearance in the past on other missions had not, to their knowledge, disrupted their own time.\par
\ldblquote I have already acknowledged that I cannot measure the degree to which chaos theory can be applied to history,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote And I accept this history as accurate. However, the First Law requires me to consider the danger of changing history, no matter how remote it may be. After all, as a robot, MC 6 can expect a much longer life than any human, barring injury. If we do not take him away soon enough, he can remain in this time to continue working out compromises as new hostilities develop. Of course, in any case we have to take him before he reaches the time he left and explodes with nuclear force.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You  \lquote re the boss, as I said earlier,\rdblquote  said Harriet. \ldblquote I\rquote m just doing my duty as your historian in reporting my opinions to you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote As far as our search is concerned, the First Law would still impel MC 6 to attempt an end to war, no matter how hopeless his long-term chances are,\rdblquote  said Hunter.  \ldblquote Following the judgment that Jane made about earlier component robots, I believe this imperative would take him to Artorius or maybe even the Saxon leaders.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I have no argument with that,\rdblquote  said Harriet. \ldblquote You would know more about robots.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I also feel that the creation of Arthurian legend will almost certainly change if the history upon which the earliest chroniclers based it no longer occurs in the same way. This is possible even if the historical events do not change. The legend seems to be quite important in British culture and its branches in the United States and other parts of the former British Empire.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Now,  that I agree with,\rdblquote  Harriet said emphatically. \ldblquote Arthurian legend-of course it could change if historical events alter. That legend has had great cultural influence over the centuries and must not be allowed to change.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I wouldn\rquote t want to lose it, either,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote I followed it as a kid-the stories of Camelot and the Knights of the Round Table, and Lancelot and Guinevere.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course, we will not find them here,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote They are legend, not history.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote So we agree with you about not letting MC 6 change history after all,\rdblquote  said Harriet. \ldblquote We will find him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I guess if Ishihara had responded to your call, you\rquote d have told us by now,\rdblquote  said Steve.\par
\ldblquote That is correct,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote I have heard nothing.\rdblquote\par
\par
6\par
\par
By the time they reached the main gate at the base of the tor, torches burned in brackets over it. Sentries in leather jerkins and leggings picked up their spears and began to swing the solid wooden doors closed. They waited, however, as Hunter strode up to them.\par
Steve,  remembering that no Britons here had seen anyone of Chinese descent, hung back in the shadows with his head down.\par
\ldblquote We seek shelter, friends,\rdblquote  Hunter called out cheerfully in British. \ldblquote You have lodging in the village, do you not?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We have inns here,\rdblquote  said one of the sentries. \ldblquote What is your business?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I breed horses in Gaul,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote I seek new land in which to breed my horses. Even in Gaul, we have heard of the great cavalry leader Artorius. I would speak with him and ask if he will accept some of my finest stock.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes?  Where are your horses? Still in Gaul?\rdblquote  The sentry grinned. Next to him, his companion laughed.\par
\ldblquote We took ship from Gaul with five horses, but rough seas cast them overboard.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes?\rdblquote   The sentry eyed Hunter cautiously.\par
\ldblquote Have you crossed the Channel, friend?\rdblquote  Hunter asked. \ldblquote At this time of year?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No,\rdblquote   said the sentry. \ldblquote Rough, is it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The same rains that fall here in the spring can rage over the seas even harder,\rdblquote   said Hunter.\par
The sentry nodded, looking over Hunter\rquote s tunic. Then he glanced at Harriet and Steve. \ldblquote We are far inland here. How did you come?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We landed on the southern coast at Devon, then followed the roads here.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How did you know which way to come?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Every shepherd and villager on the way knows how to find Artorius.\rdblquote\par
The sentry nodded again.\par
\ldblquote Who are your companions?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote My wife and our servant, a man from the farthest side of the Roman Empire.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Very well. Welcome, friends.\rdblquote  He stood aside for them to enter.\par
Steve still kept his head down as he followed Harriet through the gate. In the darkness, broken only by flickering torchlight over their heads, he knew the sentries could not see him clearly. In any case, they did not bother to look;  they were closing the gates behind him.\par
Hunter led them up a long, cobbled road to the village at the top of the tor. The sentries at the main gate of the wall also watched them approach by torchlight.  When Hunter stopped in front of the gate, Steve lowered his head again and remained back in the shadows.\par
\ldblquote We seek lodging,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote The sentries below passed us.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I thought as much,\rdblquote  said the man in front of him. \ldblquote Are you the last in for the night? If so, we\rquote ll close this gate behind you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,  we are the last.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Come in, then.\rdblquote  He, too, stood aside.\par
Hunter led Harriet and Steve through the gate into the village.\par
The streets of the village were lit by torches over a few of the doors. People still walked through the streets, especially outside taverns. The mood seemed peaceful.\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s not like the peasant villages in medieval China, is it?\rdblquote  Steve asked. \ldblquote Those were just homes for farmers. This is more like a small town.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I see shops, stables, and taverns,\rdblquote  said Hunter, looking up the length of the streets in each direction. \ldblquote Only the taverns are still open for business,  however. This is a village in a civilized society. It also has nothing in common with the villages we saw in ancient Germany, which belonged to a primarily hunting and gathering society.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Roman Britain was something of an outpost in the Roman Empire,\rdblquote  said Harriet.  \ldblquote However, London, York, and Bath were established as Roman bases-modest by the standards of the Mediterranean, but civilized urban areas in comparison to the earlier British Celtic villages. Cadbury Tor has evolved from an older country village to something of a town, obviously because of Artorius bringing power and wealth to the area.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Jane could be here,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote Wouldn\rquote t Ishihara want to get Wayne and Jane some good shelter like this?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote   said Hunter. \ldblquote For tonight, however, we must do the same. Our search can begin tomorrow.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Lead the way,\rdblquote  said Steve.\par
Hunter approached a quiet tavern. Inside, several men sat at tables drinking. Some wore leather jerkins and leggings similar to those of the sentries. Others wore woolen tunics like Hunter\rquote s and Steve\rquote s. A short, gaunt innkeeper limped forward to look up at Hunter.\par
\ldblquote Yes,  friend?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We seek lodging for the night,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote For my wife and me and our servant.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Show me your money.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How much do you want for the rooms?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That will depend on whose money you carry.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Roman coins from Gaul.\rdblquote  Hunter opened the pouch at his belt and spilled some coins into one hand. He held out his palm so the other man could see them. \ldblquote Mostly copper. Some silver. No gold.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No gold, eh?\rdblquote  The innkeeper scowled at the money. \ldblquote Five silvers.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote For one room?\rdblquote  Hunter shook his head. \ldblquote Two coppers, friend.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Four silvers, then.\rdblquote\par
Hunter closed his fist around the coins. \ldblquote We have traveled far. Two coppers is a fair price.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Find it elsewhere, then, if you can.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Very well.\rdblquote  Hunter turned abruptly and strode toward the door.\par
Steve and Harriet moved outside ahead of him. Just as they got outside, however, the innkeeper hustled after them. At the sound of his footsteps, they turned.\par
\ldblquote Four coppers,\rdblquote  called the innkeeper. \ldblquote For our friends from across the Channel. A special price.\rdblquote\par
Steve grinned. \ldblquote I showed Hunter how to bargain on earlier missions,\rdblquote  he whispered to Harriet.\par
\ldblquote Three coppers,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote For a room with two feather beds,\rdblquote  Harriet whispered. \ldblquote On the ground floor, with a fireplace.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I have no such room with a fireplace of its own,\rdblquote  said the innkeeper, glancing at her.\par
\ldblquote Two coppers, then,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote Three coppers for a room with two beds and a bar on the door,\rdblquote  said the innkeeper.  \ldblquote On the ground floor near the back door to the latrine.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Very well,\rdblquote  said Hunter. He dropped three copper coins into the man\rquote s open palm.\par
\ldblquote Welcome,  friends. Come inside.\rdblquote  The innkeeper stepped aside and swung his arm toward the door.\par
Hunter accepted. Harriet and Steve followed him back inside. Some of the men drinking at the tables glanced up again, but without much interest.\par
The innkeeper picked up a stub of candle on a small dish and led them down a narrow hallway. He opened the door to a small room and swung it back. Then he stepped out again.\par
Steve glanced around. The two beds nearly filled the room, leaving only a small space between them. A long, narrow shelf ran along the wall from the doorway. This room was intended for sleeping, no more.\par
\ldblquote It is acceptable,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote In the morning, I expect bowls of water for washing.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote As you wish. Sleep well, friends.\rdblquote  The innkeeper handed him the candle dish and left.\par
Steve drew back the covers to one bed. \ldblquote Well, it looks clean enough.\rdblquote  He pushed on the pallet. \ldblquote Straw, not feathers. It\rquote ll be scratchy.\rdblquote\par
Harriet laughed lightly. \ldblquote I trust we\rquote ll survive the night somehow.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I will spend the night by the door, on guard,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote Do you need anything outside the room before I bar it for the night?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yeah,\rdblquote   said Steve, with a grin. \ldblquote A quick trip out to the latrine. And don\rquote t bar it before I get back, either.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course I will not.\rdblquote  Hunter sounded puzzled.\par
\ldblquote That was a joke, Hunter.\rdblquote\par
\par
When Steve returned, Hunter barred the door and touched the candlewick lightly with one finger to put it out. As the humans got into bed, he listened for any sounds suggesting danger and heard none. He remained alert throughout the night, motionless to conserve his energy.\par
Morning arrived without incident. When Hunter heard footsteps elsewhere in the inn, he went out and repeated his request for bowls of water from the innkeeper for Harriet and Steve. By the time the innkeeper fetched water from the cistern and Hunter returned to the room, both Harriet and Steve were up and dressed.\par
Soon they went to the dining area in the front. Steve brought the team\rquote s bag with him, since they had not paid for a second night in the room. The men from the night before were not there, but two other men in woolen tunics sat hunched over bowls of hot cereal. The fire in the fireplace had gone out.\par
\ldblquote Remember to speak British,\rdblquote  Hunter whispered in that language. \ldblquote We will be overheard and we want to sound as though we belong.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote As you wish.\rdblquote  Harriet drew in a deep breath. \ldblquote Ah, feel that brisk spring air again. I love it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m hungry,\rdblquote  said Steve, moving to an empty table. \ldblquote This one okay?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
The innkeeper hurried out to greet them and offered breakfast. In the daylight, he took a second glance at Steve in surprise, but said nothing. For breakfast, he served wooden bowls of hot oatmeal and herbal tea. He also brought out a small dish of honey for flavoring.\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s quite familiar,\rdblquote  said Harriet, inhaling the steam rising from the oatmeal. \ldblquote I suppose oatmeal and honey haven\rquote t changed a great deal over the years.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s good,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote Not that I like oatmeal much. Good enough, though.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I reviewed my conversation with the sentries at the outer gate,\rdblquote  said Hunter.  \ldblquote While my claim to be a horse breeder and trader got us inside the tor, I now believe that Steve is correct that this will not bring us to an audience with Artorius. Without horses to show a prospective buyer, the pose will no longer be useful.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote At least we\rquote re inside.\rdblquote  Steve shrugged. \ldblquote Maybe we can just hang around here in the village and ask for people of Jane\rquote s and MC 6\rquote s descriptions.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I prefer to act more aggressively,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote Harriet, we discussed some other possible social roles before we left. Would you suggest another?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well,  you didn\rquote t want to be soldiers because that might be more dangerous to Steve,\rdblquote   said Harriet. \ldblquote But without other supplies to bring Artorius-food, armor, or weapons, mainly-that\rquote s the best way to get the attention of a military commander. You could start by joining up and then look for an opportunity to meet him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Hold it.\rdblquote  Steve swallowed and put down his spoon. \ldblquote I have another problem with this.  I learned the hard way in the Caribbean that I\rquote m no fighter.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Really?\rdblquote   Harriet turned to him. \ldblquote What happened, may I ask?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I tried fighting a couple of times.\rdblquote  Grinning, Steve shook his head. \ldblquote One guy almost carved me up with a rapier, but someone interrupted us. Running around on deck during a boarding was even crazier. And what kind of soldier can Hunter be? He\rquote s not allowed to harm humans.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Our goal does not require fighting,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote We simply want to be involved in life around Artorius, where MC 6 will probably appear. Harriet, how soon will Artorius go to war again?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s hard to say,\rdblquote  she said slowly. \ldblquote In a sense, despite short-term truces and treaties, Britain is more or less in a state of ongoing war between Britons and Saxons.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Can you make any sort of calculated estimate about when the next campaign will begin?\rdblquote  Hunter asked.\par
\ldblquote Let me think out loud for a moment. The earliest chronicles don\rquote t give the years in which battles took place, let alone months and days. The odds are, however,  that none ever took place here at Artorius\rquote s capital, or that fact would have been mentioned.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If he has to march somewhere else for battle, we\rquote ll have plenty of warning,\rdblquote  said Steve.\par
\ldblquote Most of the battle sites were vague,\rdblquote  said Harriet. \ldblquote Some are completely unknown, but Artorius will certainly have to go out on campaign to reach them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Hunter.\rdblquote   Steve switched to English and spoke in a whisper. \ldblquote For this subject, we can\rquote t risk being understood by anyone else. If Artorius goes out on campaign while we\rquote re here, are you going to let us desert from his cavalry to avoid getting into a battle?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We must always remember that MC 6 is our first goal, but of course I cannot put either of you into more danger than necessary under the First Law.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I think you just dodged my question.\rdblquote  Steve grinned wryly. \ldblquote Can we desert or not?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If necessary, I will certainly take you out of danger,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote That hasn\rquote t always worked out as we\rquote ve planned,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote But I\rquote ll go along with this if you really want to.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I suggest we also expand on our personal story.\rdblquote  Harriet whispered in English also.\par
\ldblquote What do you have in mind?\rdblquote  Hunter asked.\par
\ldblquote We should maintain our claim to have traveled from Gaul recently, or we will be branded liars. But in order to explain your desire to fight for Artorius, we should explain that we are Britons.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And we just moved to Gaul for a while to live?\rdblquote  Steve asked skeptically. \ldblquote That sounds a little thin to me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s not all,\rdblquote  said Harriet. \ldblquote I suggest we come from Linnuis, a British district which the Saxons have taken over. This would explain why we were displaced in years past and fled to Gaul when a ship was available. Now we have managed to come back to Britain.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I understand,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote This improves our story. Where is Linnuis?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Historians believe Linnuis was modern Lincolnshire. It lies on the coast of the North Sea,  northeast of here across the width of Britain.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We will use this as our story,\rdblquote  said Hunter, speaking British again. \ldblquote How should we make our attempt to enlist with Artorius?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote After breakfast, I suggest you ask the sentries at the main gate to the village.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Very well,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote I can hardly believe this.\rdblquote  Steve laughed lightly, still whispering in English.  \ldblquote We rode dinosaurs, sailed with buccaneers, and ambushed Roman legions. We landed in the middle of World War II, met Marco Polo and Kublai Khan, and now we\rquote re going to join King Arthur. Wow.\rdblquote\par
\par
7\par
\par
After breakfast, Steve followed Hunter and Harriet out of the inn to the street. Merchants had already opened their shops and stalls by now. The village gate stood open and people walked up and down the streets.\par
Steve liked the idea of accompanying Artorius and his men for a while, as long as no battles with Saxons were involved. He wished Jane could see him join up; she would probably find it funny and she might even be impressed by it. Then his mood dampened as he wondered where she was.\par
\ldblquote Hunter,\rdblquote   Steve said, falling into step with him just before they reached the village gate. \ldblquote How about spreading the word around the village that we\rquote re looking for Jane before we sign up?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I can do that,\rdblquote  said Harriet. \ldblquote While you two enlist, I will spend the day asking about Jane around the village. And I will ask about our missing friend.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Will you be safe here?\rdblquote  Hunter asked.\par
\ldblquote Yes,  I think so.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The village is peaceful,\rdblquote  the sentry said. \ldblquote She will be safe.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote Here.  I\rquote ll carry the bag today. You\rquote ll need your hands free.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Thanks.\rdblquote   Steve handed it to her.\par
\ldblquote Of course.\rdblquote  Harriet turned and strolled up the street.\par
Steve shrugged, disappointed.\par
Different sentries stood by the gate. As Hunter approached, one turned toward him,  leaning on his spear.\par
\ldblquote Good morning, friend,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote Fair,\rdblquote   said the sentry.\par
\ldblquote My friend and I had to flee our home in Linnuis to escape the Saxons. We would like to fight with Artorius. How do we volunteer?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You want to volunteer?\rdblquote  The sentry eyed Steve with curiosity for a moment, saying nothing. Then he turned back to Hunter. \ldblquote All right, then. Step over here.\rdblquote\par
The sentry moved to the middle of the open gateway and pointed. On the steep slope of the tor below, Steve could see forty or fifty armed men milling around. Some were mounted; others walked horses by their reins. From this vantage point, he could also see a pen holding a few other horses on the far side of a storage building.\par
\ldblquote Lucius takes the new recruits out every morning,\rdblquote  said the sentry. \ldblquote They just finished breakfast a short time ago. Go down and ask for Lucius.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Thank you,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote If those are the new recruits, where are the others?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Most of the veterans have not arrived from their winter homes. Artorius\rquote s personal troop is at leisure today, except for those on patrol.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I see.\rdblquote\par
Steve and Hunter walked out of the gate and down the cobbled road. The new recruits were slowly mounting and lining up, with several burly men in leather jerkins shouting orders. One man on a large bay waited silently, watching them all.  Hunter walked up to him.\par
\ldblquote Are you Lucius? We are Hunter and Steve.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.  What do you want?\rdblquote  Lucius studied Hunter with interest.\par
\ldblquote We wish to volunteer and ride with Artorius against the Saxons.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Hmm.  We can always use a man of your stature, if we have a horse to carry your weight.\rdblquote  Lucius glanced at Steve. \ldblquote Do you speak our language?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,  I speak British.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote From where do you come?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote From the eastern side of the Roman Empire. We have been in Gaul until recently.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Gaul?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote My wife and I fled Linnuis ahead of the Saxons,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote The three of us arrived here last night.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well,  you are no Saxons. Do you ride? Have you fought before?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We both can ride,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote However, we have not fought much.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Do you have horses?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No.\rdblquote\par
Lucius frowned. \ldblquote I feared so. We are always short of good horses.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You are taking new recruits,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote Will you take us or not?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The personal troop of Artorius has its full complement of three hundred,\rdblquote  Lucius said sternly. \ldblquote But word has gone out for last year\rquote s veterans to come from their farms and villages. Most of them will have their own mounts and a few may bring new ones, too.\rdblquote  He pointed to the wooden building on the slope behind the new recruits. \ldblquote I will see if you can ride or not. Go to the tack building and tell the groom to mount you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We have no weapons,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote The armorer\rquote s store stands on the near side of the building,\rdblquote  said Lucius. \ldblquote Stop there first and tell him to outfit you. And hurry; we will ride out soon.\rdblquote\par
Steve followed Hunter through the crowd of men and horses. Ahead, Steve saw the armorer standing outside a wooden building watching them come. He was a short man with long, gray hair and beard. When he turned and moved inside the building, he walked with a pronounced limp.\par
By the time Steve and Hunter reached the building, the armorer had come outside again. He tossed two round wooden shields on the ground in front of them and then dropped two short swords on the shields. Without a word, he limped back into the building.\par
\ldblquote I guess he knew what we wanted when he saw us coming,\rdblquote  said Steve, picking up a sword and shield. \ldblquote No swordbelts or scabbards, though.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Roman short swords,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote British shields. I suppose the armor will be made of leather.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote So it is,\rdblquote  said the armorer gruffly as he came out again. He leaned two spears against the wall of the building. \ldblquote But not for you, friend. You\rquote re too big.  I\rquote ll have to boil a new hide and slap it on you when you ride back this afternoon.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Boil it?\rdblquote  Steve asked.\par
The armorer snickered, revealing broken teeth. \ldblquote A first-timer, eh? Well, you\rquote ll learn.\rdblquote  He reached inside the door and pulled out a large, rigid piece of leather, about the size and shape of Steve\rquote s torso. It bent at the shoulders,  with a hole for his head; the bottom was cut short at the waist. Thongs dangled from holes along each side. \ldblquote Lace those on.\rdblquote\par
Steve slipped it over his head and onto his chest and abdomen. \ldblquote It\rquote s hard.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Boiled leather will turn a blade almost as well as steel,\rdblquote  said the armorer. \ldblquote It just wears out faster, over time. But if you had the money to buy steel, you\rquote d be wearing it.\rdblquote\par
Hunter moved to Steve\rquote s side and began lacing the leather armor on him.\par
\ldblquote How do you get the shape?\rdblquote  Steve asked.\par
\ldblquote I boil it in a vat of water till it\rquote s nice and soft. Then I slap on your body steaming hot, and you\rquote d better be wearing a tunic when I do.\rdblquote  The armorer grinned. \ldblquote It takes the shape of your body and cools that way.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I see. Uh, what happened to the guy this belonged to before?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He died of a fever.\rdblquote  The armorer stepped back inside again and came out with two conical caps. \ldblquote Here.\rdblquote  He tossed a cap to each of them.\par
Steve put on the cap. A leather band inside the rim padded it somewhat. It fit him well enough.\par
A boy of about ten led two horses up to them, already saddled and bridled.\par
\ldblquote The groom saw you coming,\rdblquote  he said shyly to Hunter. \ldblquote We got you the biggest horse we have.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Thank you.\rdblquote  Hunter took the reins and mounted. \ldblquote He will be fine.\rdblquote\par
Steve slipped his shield on his\rquote  left arm and carefully stuck a sword through the belt of his tunic. Then he mounted the second horse, which pranced and shook. He kept control of his mount, however. The armorer handed him his spear.\par
\ldblquote He\rquote s a good horse,\rdblquote  said the boy. \ldblquote But he spent all winter in pasture. He\rquote s only three and he hasn\rquote t had a rider since last fall.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I like him,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote Hunter, the troop is riding out. We\rquote d better go.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote   Hunter reached down to take his spear from the armorer. \ldblquote Thank you, friends.\rdblquote\par
Steve and Hunter rode back across the slope and followed the rear of the troop out the main gate at the base of the tor. The morning air was still cool, but the clouds overhead had begun to scatter. Steve grinned with excitement, wondering what Lucius would have the troop do.\par
They did not ride far. In the open, rolling country outside Cadbury, Lucius ordered the troop to split into squads, ordering each to fallout and drill separately.  Because the squads formed immediately, Steve saw that they had already been assigned.\par
Hunter and Steve rode up to Lucius, who had reined up on the crest of a hill to observe the troop.\par
\ldblquote We are ready, friend,\rdblquote  Hunter said heartily. \ldblquote Where should we go?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Eh?  Oh, yes.\rdblquote  Lucius pointed to a nearby squad. \ldblquote These are squads of ten, but that one is short. Your squad leader, Cynric, will drill you.\rdblquote\par
Steve followed Hunter to the squad. A short, stocky man had been shouting orders to the group. Just as Steve and Hunter reached them, Cynric raised his spear and turned his horse. He led the squad away in a canter.\par
Steve kicked his own mount and followed. His young horse eagerly took off. Hunter\rquote s mount also moved into a canter, more reluctantly. Steve left him behind as the squad rode across the open grassland.\par
Soon Cynric took the squad into a full gallop. Then, without warning, he pulled up sharply. Just as the squad gathered around him, he kicked his mount again and took off in another direction. Steve laughed and followed with everyone else.\par
This time, Cynric led the squad in a long, sweeping curve back toward their starting point. Three of the riders took the curve too fast and lost it, angling wide;  two others tried to take it too sharply and lost speed. Steve watched Cynric\rquote s movements carefully and followed him without trouble, with two other riders.  Hunter remained behind him.\par
Cynric stopped again on the slope near Lucius. Steve reined up behind him, and Hunter joined him a moment later. They waited for the stragglers to canter back to them.\par
Steve,  getting a good look at the others\rquote  faces for the first time, saw that most of them were teenagers. He supposed they had either come from villages or shepherd families. They would know how to ride casually, but not on military maneuvers.\par
Cynric studied Steve and Hunter with pale blue eyes. \ldblquote Who are you, anyway?\rdblquote  His voice was gruff.\par
\ldblquote I am Hunter. This is my friend Steve.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And Lucius sent you to me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote   said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote Well...I don\rquote t get a lot of grown men in this troop. You two ride better than most of these youngsters. Can you fight?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We have never fought on horseback,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m not surprised;\rdblquote  Cynric said sourly. He threw his spear into the ground and raised his voice to the entire squad. \ldblquote Form a line and follow me. You will ride at full gallop past this spot and throw your spears into the ground next to mine-if you can.\rdblquote\par
\par
Jane rode in the back of Emrys\rquote s cart again that morning. As before, Ishihara sat in the front and firewood filled the rest of the bed; Wayne rode on the seat with Emrys. However, this time they followed almost half of Emrys\rquote s flock of sheep.  One of his dogs herded the sheep forward along the road toward Cadbury Tor.\par
When Jane saw the riders leaving the main gate of Cadbury Tor, she looked up. Even at a considerable distance, she was sure that the large rider trailing the rear of the troop had to be Hunter. The fact that a man Steve\rquote s size rode just ahead of him seemed to clinch it.\par
Jane glanced up at Wayne and Ishihara. Wayne yawned and watched the sheep. Ishihara was rearranging the firewood slightly.\par
\ldblquote Ishihara,\rdblquote   said Jane. She did not know what she was going to say, but she wanted to distract him from seeing Hunter and Steve. Wayne was not as likely to recognize them, even if he looked in their direction.\par
\ldblquote Yes?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Uh,  how safe are we?\rdblquote  A concern about the First Law would command a robot\rquote s attention the most.\par
\ldblquote What do you mean?\rdblquote  Ishihara looked at her.\par
\ldblquote Well...we\rquote re very vulnerable, don\rquote t you think?\rdblquote  Jane frantically tried to think of a specific worry she could express to him.\par
\ldblquote To what?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote To the unknown. I mean, we hardly know what\rquote s going on around us, do we?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Thanks to Emrys and Ygerna, we have food, clothing, and shelter. Neither they nor anyone in the village seem to have any pressing fears.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s not as civilized as China was.\rdblquote  Jane glanced at the troop again. They had ridden away from the tor, but Hunter remained easily recognizable at the rear.\par
\ldblquote We are much safer here than in Roman Germany,\rdblquote  said Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote Yeah...that\rquote s true, I guess. But maybe a war will start here, too.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Perhaps.  I expect to have some warning, however. We all knew that a battle would begin outside Moscow in 1941, but we survived.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s a terrible risk under the First Law, isn\rquote t it?\rdblquote  Jane stretched, and gazed casually around in several directions to camouflage another look toward the troop.  Now the column of riders had divided into small groups. For a moment, she could not find Hunter. Then she saw that his group had begun to ride away, fast. She relaxed a little.\par
\ldblquote The searches for MC 3 and MC 4 ended in much greater danger than we face here so far,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote I assure you again that I will take you and Wayne away from danger if necessary.\rdblquote  He patted the spot on his torso in which he had placed the belt unit.\par
\ldblquote I know,\rdblquote  Jane said quietly. She looked at Wayne. He did not seem to have noticed Hunter and Steve.\par
Jane wondered if the troop would ride back into the tor while Emrys was still selling sheep and firewood there. If so, she might have a chance to get Hunter\rquote s attention. She would have to hope that Wayne and Ishihara would not notice Hunter first.\par
\par
8\par
\par
Steve moved into the line as the squad prepared to throw spears. Ahead of him, the other riders waited for Cynric to wave his arm in a sharp downward slash. Then the first rider kicked his mount, rode at full gallop about fifty meters, and threw his spear into the ground next to Cynric\rquote s.\par
When Steve\rquote s: turn came, he hefted his spear in his right hand and looked at Cynric.  At the signal, he took off and eyed his target. Several other spears had stuck in the ground near it; others had fallen flat. Steve threw his without slowing his mount.\par
His spear flew forward but instead of sticking in the ground, it landed flat on the grass. He reined in near the other riders and turned. Hunter came next.\par
At the signal, Hunter rode forward. As he neared the target, he threw his spear.  It angled through the air and stabbed into the ground next to Cynric\rquote s.\par
Around them, scattered allover the rolling hills, the other squads conducted similar exercises.\par
As Hunter rode up next to Steve, Cynric nodded approval. When the squad had finished throwing their spears, they gathered around Cynric. Steve suddenly wondered if he might be cut from the troop and Hunter retained.\par
Cynric said nothing about it, however. \ldblquote Leave your spears where they are. Form two lines facing each other, two horse lengths apart. When I signal, move against the rider across from you. I want to see you handle your swords and shields.  Lay on hard, now-this is no game.\rdblquote\par
As the riders formed the lines, Steve and Hunter moved across from each other. At Cynric\rquote s signal, all the riders rode forward. Steve found that the real challenge to this exercise was holding the reins in his left hand while using the shield on his left arm to protect himself.\par
Hunter\rquote s blows were light, at least by Hunter\rquote s standards, and always landed on Steve\rquote s shield, no matter how he moved it. Steve swung his own sword with more abandon,  secure in the knowledge that Hunter could easily block each stroke with his own shield. On each side of them, the other squad members did the same.\par
Cynric rode slowly behind each line, circling the squad. He shouted instructions and encouragement at times. After a while, he ordered them to halt.\par
Steve lowered his sword and shield and grinned at Hunter with relief.\par
\ldblquote Take up your spears again,\rdblquote  Cynric called out. Then, as the riders moved out of their line, he turned to Hunter. \ldblquote You sit a horse well for a man your size.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Thank you for the kind words.\rdblquote  Hunter nodded acknowledgment. \ldblquote Tell me something. I always heard that the Saxons have no horses. In Linnuis, I never saw a mounted Saxon. Why do you have us perform this exercise against another man on horseback?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote A man who fights for Artorius must be at home on his mount,\rdblquote  Cynric said sternly.  \ldblquote Besides, occasionally a Saxon patrol will take a horse or two. But you are right. In the main, a battle against the Saxons means a small British cavalry against a much larger army of Saxon foot.\rdblquote\par
Steve had to dismount to pick up his spear. While he was on the ground he handed a couple of the other spears up to other squad members. Then, clumsily cradling his own in the crook of his left arm, he managed to mount again.\par
Hunter plucked his own spear from its vertical position in the ground and rode up next to Steve.\par
\ldblquote Harriet radioed me a moment ago,\rdblquote  Hunter said quietly. \ldblquote She is well, but has seen no sign of MC 6.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Is she just going to walk up and down the streets of the village all day?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Perhaps not. She has seen some from the citadel come out to shop. Since Artorius probably lives there, she hopes to speak to them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Hey,  maybe she can get inside somehow.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Follow me!\rdblquote  Cynric shouted suddenly, holding spear high. \ldblquote Now!\rdblquote  He rode away abruptly,  as before.\par
The squad, caught by surprise, took off after him.\par
The remainder of the morning continued the same way. Cynric ordered specific exercises with weapons, often divided by sudden orders to charge across the hills. These charges sometimes were straight, and sometimes curved; the riders had to stop and wheel around quickly, changing direction. Finally, at midday,  wagons came out of the tor to bring bread, cold mutton, and water to the squads. The horses were watered and rested.\par
In the afternoon, the nature of the exercises changed.  Now the squads worked together, maneuvering in combinations of ten, with a hundred riders each. Steve stayed close to Hunter. Finally, in late afternoon, Lucius gave the order to return to the tor.\par
As Steve and Hunter rode on weary mounts with the rest of the troop back to the main gate, Cynric rode up alongside them.\par
\ldblquote You will join us in the camp,\rdblquote  said Cynric.\par
\ldblquote You are in a camp?\rdblquote  Hunter asked. \ldblquote I have not seen a camp. Where is it?\rdblquote\par
Cynric grinned. \ldblquote Behind the village, on the far slope.  The green recruits are kept out of the way.\rdblquote\par
Steve wondered what Hunter wanted to do about Harriet, but he did not ask. A blunt conversation would have to wait until they were out of the hearing of others. He looked up at the village and wondered if Jane was there somewhere.\par
\par
Hunter knew that he could not call Harriet. He had no idea if she had company within the hearing of her lapel pin. If they could not find her in the streets of the village, then he would have to wait for her to call him again.\par
At the paddock, each rider unsaddled and brushed down his own mount. Then they were dismissed. Hunter, however,  walked back to the armorer, who had a fresh leather boiling in a big vat.\par
\ldblquote Is that for me?\rdblquote  Hunter asked.\par
\ldblquote Keep your tunic on to protect yourself from the heat,\rdblquote  the armorer said gruffly.\par
Steve stood by as the armorer pulled the steaming leather out with a long, hooked pole. The leather had a hole already cut out of the middle and the armor lowered it over Hunter\rquote s head. Moving quickly, the armorer tied it snugly around Hunter\rquote s waist with a piece of old rope. Steam rose from the leather.\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m glad he already had one my size,\rdblquote  Steve muttered. \ldblquote That\rquote s hot.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No one ever died of this,\rdblquote  growled the armorer. \ldblquote I\rquote ve been doing it for years.  That tunic he\rquote s wearing will protect him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I am fine,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
The armorer quickly tied the leather around Hunter\rquote s arms, as well, so that it fit tightly around his entire torso. Then he began to punch holes up and down the sides in straight lines, ignoring the uneven shape of the leather. By the time he had finished, the leather no longer steamed.\par
The armorer knocked on the leather against Hunter\rquote s chest. It gave slightly. \ldblquote Still soft,\rdblquote  he muttered. \ldblquote Just wear that for a few more minutes.\rdblquote\par
Hunter nodded.\par
The armorer drew a knife and began trimming the leather. He cut it off at Hunter\rquote s waist and straightened the edges running down the robot\rquote s sides from under his arms. By the time the armorer had cut the last pieces off, he had to use a great deal of effort to slice the blade through the leather.\par
\ldblquote Should be finished now.\rdblquote  The armorer knocked on the Hunter\rquote s back. This time, it made a thunking sound. \ldblquote That\rquote s it. Here, I\rquote ll lift it off.\rdblquote\par
Hunter bent forward so the armorer could raise it over his head.\par
Steve saw that the leather had now solidified into a hard shell that maintained its shape, just like the leather he was still wearing.\par
\ldblquote It needs a little more trimming. And some of these holes need to be punched out more cleanly. I\rquote ll do that. When you come back in the morning, I\rquote ll have thongs for you to lace the sides closed. After that, you keep it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Thank you.\rdblquote\par
The armorer nodded and carried the new armor inside his building.\par
Some recruits walked around the slope to the rear side, avoiding the village. Others took the cobbled road up to the village gate. Hunter and Steve walked back up to the gate together.\par
\ldblquote Hunter,  Harriet here.\rdblquote  Her call came through his internal receiver.\par
\ldblquote Yes,  Harriet.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I can see you walking back up the hill and I got a moment alone. Did you see MC 6 anywhere?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No.  Tell me where you are. We must confer.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I think we\rquote d better talk now. I\rquote m in the palace. And if I leave, I don\rquote t know if I\rquote ll be welcome back.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What do you mean?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well,  I struck up a conversation with some of the women who live here. One is the wife of an adviser to Artorius and another is the grown daughter of some elderly military man. I\rquote m not sure exactly what he does. But I explained that my husband and our servant had come from Linnuis by way of Gaul to fight and that I was now unescorted.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote They simply invited you into the palace?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not exactly. We talked for a while. They are very conscious of social class. I am clearly not a peasant. When they asked about you, I explained that you were a very wealthy and successful horse breeder and trader. They know that Artorius needs an ongoing supply of good horses.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What happened?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Gwenhwyvaer,  the daughter of the military man, has been very kind. We get along well. She invited me to stay with her. But she had to argue with some of the others. I don\rquote t want to seem ungrateful by asking to go out again today. But if everything is still okay tomorrow, maybe I can meet you in the village.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then you have safe lodging for the night?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh,  yes. As long as I don\rquote t offend anyone. And I may have a chance to spot MC 6 here, if he has regained his full size by now.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Very well. I will wait for you to call me again. If you feel any potential danger,  call immediately.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right, Hunter. Harriet out.\rdblquote\par
Hunter related the conversation to Steve. \ldblquote Instead of going up to the village to look for her, I suggest we go to the camp in the rear to find out where we will sleep.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good idea.\rdblquote\par
\par
Jane had hoped to remain in the village until the troop returned. However, Emrys\rquote s business did not take long enough. In the morning, he had bargained with men from the palace for the sheep. After some spirited haggling, Emrys had sold them all to the palace, improving the deal by offering the firewood, as well. He had received both coin and barter in the form of some wool and two piglets that had to be tied inside the wagon.\par
At Jane\rquote s request, Emrys had agreed to spend more time in the village. They visited an open-air stall at midday to eat and then browsed through the shops.  However, in the middle of the afternoon, he had decided to return home. As they had taken the wagon back down the slope toward the gate in the outer wall, Jane had seen the troop of riders still maneuvering in the distance.\par
Jane watched Wayne and Ishihara carefully all day. In turn, they looked at everyone in the village, but only glanced casually at the troops on maneuver in the distance. She could not figure out why Ishihara did not examine the troops more closely.\par
Although she did not want Ishihara to notice Hunter if he had not seen him already, she wanted to find out what priorities he was using. She waited until the wagon had left the main gate and traveled down the road, leaving the troops out of sight around a bend. Then she raised the subject indirectly, speaking in English so that Emrys would not understand.\par
\ldblquote Ishihara.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote As I understand it, Wayne will only instruct you to let me go if he can either get MC 6 or bargain for him with Hunter. Right?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yeah?\rdblquote   In the front seat by Emrys, Wayne turned around and glared at her suspiciously.  \ldblquote We\rquote ve already established that. What of it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote When are we going to get this underway? I don\rquote t want to live here forever.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Calm down, will you?\rdblquote  Wayne said sourly. \ldblquote I don\rquote t like waiting, either. But we can\rquote t do anything till we find at least one of them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote So we\rquote re just going to visit the village every day and look around? What if Emrys doesn\rquote t want to go back tomorrow? He has chores at home.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If we have to, we\rquote ll hike in ourselves,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote Right, Ishihara?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If you wish.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And then we just stand around?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Do you have a better idea?\rdblquote\par
Jane looked at Ishihara. \ldblquote Tell me if you know where MC 6 or Hunter is.\rdblquote\par
Ishihara turned to look at Wayne. \ldblquote What should I do? You instructed me not to discuss this subject with her or in front of her.\rdblquote\par
Wayne grinned. \ldblquote Go ahead and answer.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I do not know where MC 6 is,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote I may know where Hunter is but I am not certain.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Nice try.\rdblquote  Wayne snickered. \ldblquote You can\rquote t order him to tell you something he doesn\rquote t know.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s not the point,\rdblquote  said Jane. For the moment, she decided not to sound too eager to learn what Ishihara might know about Hunter. \ldblquote Do you guys have a plan or not?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ve calculated that MC 6 will return to his full size in the tor,\rdblquote  said Wayne.  \ldblquote I\rquote ve instructed Ishihara to prioritize spotting him.\rdblquote\par
Jane decided to risk reminding them of the troops. \ldblquote Does that include people outside the tor? Say, shepherds like Emrys, or traders coming to and from the tor?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I have looked at the people we have passed on the road,\rdblquote  said Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote How about those riders?\rdblquote  Wayne asked. \ldblquote The guys with the spears? They were too far for me to see clearly.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote None of them is small enough to be MC 6,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote One of them is large enough to be Hunter. With the movements of the riders, I was not able to ascertain this for certain, even at the maximum magnification of my vision. A man the size and build of Steve rode very close to him.\rdblquote\par
Jane said nothing. She had recognized Hunter. At least she now knew what Ishihara had seen. The reason he had not mentioned it in her hearing before was that Wayne had instructed him not to do so.\par
\ldblquote You\rquote re sure that MC 6 is not riding with that outfit?\rdblquote  Wayne asked.\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good.  For now, we\rquote ll let Hunter waste his time with them. We\rquote ll focus on finding MC 6 first.\rdblquote\par
Jane said nothing more.\par
\par
Steve and Hunter found the camp on the far slope. A single large command tent stood at the top. Two unhitched wagons stood next to it, full of closed wooden crates. Small campfire sites, cold at the moment, dotted the area, surrounded by small bundles of furs and cloth bags.\par
Cynric met them there and showed them which campfire belonged to their squad. He also pulled some old blankets out of a crate in one wagon and gave them to Steve and Hunter. The other squad members had not come back yet.\par
After Cynric walked away, Steve sighed and looked up at Hunter.\par
\ldblquote What is wrong?\rdblquote  Hunter asked. He set his blanket down on the ground..\par
\ldblquote We\rquote ll be sleeping out under the stars. It was cold last night. Even next to the fire,  we\rquote ll be cold.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I noted the temperature last night. It should not be harmful to you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No...but it\rquote ll be uncomfortable.\rdblquote  Steve grinned. \ldblquote Don\rquote t worry about it. I just hope it doesn\rquote t rain.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I suggest we walk up to the village. The sun will not go down right away. Maybe we can buy some additional bedclothes for you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Okay.\rdblquote   Steve glanced up. The sky had more clouds than before, but he did not smell rain.\par
They walked back up to the village and strolled through the streets. Hunter found a stall selling furs and bargained down the price on a coverlet of rabbit pelts stitched together. Steve slung it over his shoulder gratefully.\par
Hunter noted when the other green recruits in the village left again. He and Steve followed them back to the camp, where the campfires now burned. Some men passed bread to each squad; pots of mut ton already boiled over the fires. A brisk breeze blew across the twilit countryside.\par
\par
9\par
\par
As Steve and Hunter sat down around their campfire,  Cynric finally introduced each squad member by name. In the gathering darkness, he directed one of the men to ladle mutton out of the pot into wooden bowls already filled with chunks of bread.\par
\ldblquote Cynric,\rdblquote   said a young man named Cai. \ldblquote What will we do tomorrow? More of the same?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote More of the same.\rdblquote  Cynric looked around the group sternly. \ldblquote You have much to learn before you can keep an angry Saxon from killing you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Will it be different when the veterans arrive?\rdblquote  Cai asked. \ldblquote Will we ride with them?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Our troop will remain together,\rdblquote  said Cynric. \ldblquote Lucius will lead us. When the veterans first begin to gather, they will not bother to ride, except on their own. Once the bulk of them have arrived, we will practice maneuvers with them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote When will we go out on campaign?\rdblquote  A taller young man named Cadoc looked up from his bowl.\par
\ldblquote No one can be sure,\rdblquote  said Cynric. \ldblquote It depends on what word Artorius hears from scouts and returning veterans. He won\rquote t plan a campaign until he knows something about the enemy.\rdblquote\par
None of them spoke.\par
\ldblquote You can be sure we\rquote re going somewhere,\rdblquote  Cynric added. \ldblquote Spring always brings a new campaign for Artorius. You need not doubt that.\rdblquote\par
The other men nodded.\par
Cai chewed on a piece of bread for a moment and glanced at Steve. \ldblquote I\rquote ve never seen a man of your appearance before, yet you speak our language well. How did you two come to join us here today?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s a long story,\rdblquote  Steve said cautiously. He was not sure how much detail Cai wanted.\par
\ldblquote We met in Gaul,\rdblquote  said Hunter casually. \ldblquote My wife and I hail from Linnuis, but we fled the Saxons on board ship across the Channel.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I have known men from Gaul,\rdblquote  said Cadoc. \ldblquote None looked liked you, Steve.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I come from the eastern end of the Roman Empire,\rdblquote  said Steve. He glanced at Hunter, who watched him silently. Steve decided he was free to improvise. \ldblquote I traveled to Gaul as a servant to another horse breeder. We met Hunter and I began working for him, instead.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But where is this land you come from?\rdblquote  Cai asked. \ldblquote My grandfather served allover the empire and told me stories about his travels. Do you come from Egypt?  Judea? The Parthian border?\rdblquote\par
Steve looked at Hunter again.\par
\ldblquote His family comes from farther east than that,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote From Sina, the land of silk.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Never heard of it,\rdblquote  said Cynric. \ldblquote Not that I care.\rdblquote  He looked into the distance,  where the sun had gone down. A faint glow over the horizon still lit the sky.  \ldblquote Well, men, shall we take our nightly stroll through the village?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You walk through the village every night?\rdblquote  Hunter asked. \ldblquote Why?\rdblquote\par
Cynric grinned. \ldblquote For a goblet of mead, maybe. Or to meet a woman in a tavern. Maybe just for a walk. It keeps these young farmers and shepherds in the saddle during the day, when they know they have a visit in the village at night.\rdblquote\par
Steve caught Hunter\rquote s eye. \ldblquote We\rquote ll join you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Hunter,  you can see your wife.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Perhaps,\rdblquote   said Hunter. \ldblquote First, we have business in the village. A certain friend of ours may live in the village now. We will look for him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote As you wish.\rdblquote  Cynric shrugged.\par
As the squad walked back up to the village, Steve noticed that the other squads were doing the same. Not everyone went, however; a few others stayed around their fires. Some of the men had already stretched out in their bedrolls.\par
The streets of the village had only a few people, just as the night before. Cynric sought out the most crowded tavern, though, calling out to friends he found there.\par
Hunter and Steve bought mead in dented metal goblets and stood among talkative,  laughing men in the middle of the crowd. Steve saw that Hunter was looking around, so he did not bother; Hunter\rquote s height advantage and better vision meant that he could do the job better and faster, anyway.\par
Steve found the mead interesting at first, but not really to his liking. He held the goblet and glanced back out the open doorway. A small group of other men sauntered past.\par
Hunter continued looking around the crowd. Steve slipped away from him through the crowd, moving toward the door. The noise in the tavern covered his footsteps.  With a glance over his shoulder at Hunter\rquote s back, he set his goblet down on a small table and stepped back outside. He hurried down the street.\par
After the five earlier missions, Steve no longer worried about changing history through ordinary actions. He did not believe that he would alter the fate of Britain or the shape of Arthurian legend by getting away from Hunter for a few minutes to explore the taverns on his own. At the same time, he knew he would feel more free to act spontaneously without Hunter.\par
Steve followed the men in front of him into another tavern. This place had about half the crowd of the last one, but the patrons here were also cheerful and talkative. Steve moved to the bar and ordered more mead. When he turned, he found almost every man in the place looking at him.\par
Slowly the tavern grew quiet.\par
Steve looked from face to face. For the first time, he realized that Hunter\rquote s company had protected him. No matter how curious or hostile the Britons had felt, none had confronted him in front of Hunter. The squad members had asked their questions politely. Now he was on his own.\par
A young man with shoulder-length, reddish-blond hair smirked at him over a goblet.\par
Steve decided to take the initiative. \ldblquote Good evening,\rdblquote  he said pleasantly.\par
\ldblquote So it is, stranger.\rdblquote  The other man snickered. \ldblquote Who are you, then? Some Pict from the wilds up north?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Ha!\rdblquote   Another man sneered. \ldblquote I say he\rquote s a wild man from across the western sea.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I came from Gaul,\rdblquote  said Steve, forcing a smile.\par
\ldblquote You\rquote re no Gaul,\rdblquote  said the first man. \ldblquote But you speak our language. What\rquote s your name,  then?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Steve.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Eh?  What kind of name is that?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well,  it\rquote s short for Steven,\rdblquote  Steve said lamely. \ldblquote What\rquote s your name?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I heard of a Stephen who followed Jesus,\rdblquote  said another man, quietly.\par
\ldblquote What\rquote s your name?\rdblquote  Steve asked the blond man again, still trying to sound cheerful.\par
The man ignored his question. \ldblquote You were named for this Stephen?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It was the origin of my name,\rdblquote  Steve said hesitantly. He had been named after a relative in the immediate sense. More importantly, he realized that the men around him really wanted to know something about him. He would have to speak up to satisfy them.\par
\ldblquote You are a follower of the Church, then.\rdblquote  The blond man cocked his head to one side,  studying Steve\rquote s face.\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote   Steve did not know if Britain in this time had different denominations or sects, so he said nothing more. He also could not tell exactly what opinion the others might hold about this.\par
\ldblquote What is your purpose here?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote My friend and I have joined the troop of new recruits,\rdblquote  said Steve.\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s true,\rdblquote  a man called from the back. \ldblquote I saw him riding back through the gate with a big, tall fellow.\rdblquote\par
The blond man smiled, finally. \ldblquote I am Bedwyr. I lead a scouting patrol.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Really?  Do you live here year-round?\rdblquote  Steve felt a wave of relief at his friendlier tone.\par
Bedwyr slapped him on the shoulder. \ldblquote Forgive our questions, friend. Artorius will lead us all out on campaign soon, but we are getting restless.\rdblquote\par
Steve glanced around. Not all of the other men had accepted his presence; some still eyed him suspiciously. However, no one else spoke.\par
\ldblquote Something wrong, friend?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ve only seen a few taverns in your village. How about showing me around a little?\rdblquote\par
Bedwyr laughed. \ldblquote Why, sure.\rdblquote  He threw back his head and emptied his goblet. \ldblquote Come on,  let\rquote s go.\rdblquote\par
Steve took another swig of his mead and set his goblet down. As he followed Bedwyr out of the tavern, he was glad to see that no one else joined them. He did not feel that he had been made welcome, exactly, but being treated with indifference was good enough.\par
Bedwyr started up the street, pointing to another small building with flickering candles in the window. \ldblquote That\rquote s a good place for food,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote Not so much for drinking.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Tell me something,\rdblquote  said Steve, falling into step next to him. \ldblquote You\rquote re the only one who seemed to think my joining Artorius meant something. The others still aren\rquote t so friendly. What\rquote s different about you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You mean, regarding you?\rdblquote  Bedwyr shrugged. \ldblquote I spoke up first because I was the most curious about you. And Artorius needs every good man he can get.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote So I have heard.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The Saxons don\rquote t ride, but they come across the Channel like endless packs of wolves. Any man who will face them is all right with me. But you must understand that in these times, not everyone loves a stranger.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,  I do.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Enough of that.\rdblquote  Bedwyr pointed up in the moonlight toward the palace as they walked.  \ldblquote My barracks lie there, in the citadel. You can\rquote t see it well in the darkness,  but all of Artorius\rquote s personal troop lives with him in that quarter. We are sworn to die for him if necessary.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Are you in his personal bodyguard?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No,\rdblquote   said Bedwyr. \ldblquote You misunderstand. He has a personal household troop of about three hundred, depending on casualties from time to time. We live here permanently and accompany him on every trip he takes. His bodyguards are a special group of only twenty.\rdblquote\par
Steve wanted to get inside the palace somehow to look for MC 6. However, he did not want to appear too eager for fear of making Bedwyr suspicious of his motives.  He decided to approach the subject obliquely.\par
\ldblquote How does a new man join the personal troop?\rdblquote  Steve asked. \ldblquote To maintain the number around three hundred, men killed in battle obviously must be replaced.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote A man\rquote s loyalty must be proven. For instance, my father died fighting in Artorius\rquote s personal troop when I was young. My mother sent me when I came of age.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote So connections are important.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,  or special courage and sacrifice on the battlefield.\rdblquote  Bedwyr nodded.\par
\ldblquote What about working in the palace?\rdblquote  Steve asked. \ldblquote Artorius must have people who keep the fires burning and cook the food and clean up.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What of it? You came to fight.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not for me,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote I\rquote m looking for a friend. A little guy. He\rquote s coming here,  but I don\rquote t know if he\rquote s already arrived or not. He wasn\rquote t in Lucius\rquote s troop,  so I wonder if he\rquote s working in the palace.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Ah.  I understand now.\rdblquote  Bedwyr shrugged. \ldblquote People like that, the servants...I pay no attention.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Who would know? Someone in the palace who hires the servants, I guess.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
Steve waited, hoping Bedwyr would offer to help. When he did not, Steve decided to ask him outright. Steve only hoped he would not offend the warrior in some unpredictable way.\par
\ldblquote Could you introduce me to this person? I would like to ask about my friend.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Mm,  well, how about another drink, Steve? Even this little village has more taverns than we\rquote ve seen yet.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You can\rquote t take a stranger to the palace?\rdblquote\par
Bedwyr grinned. \ldblquote You really want to find this fellow. Does he owe you money?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No,  no.\rdblquote  Steve laughed. \ldblquote But you\rquote re right-finding him is very important to me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ll talk to a friend,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr slowly. \ldblquote But no promises. Come on.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Where are we going?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We\rquote ll see who\rquote s on sentry duty this watch. I know all those guys.\rdblquote\par
Steve grinned in the darkness. This was progress, at least. In Bedwyr\rquote s company, he couldn\rquote t call Hunter directly, but he switched on his lapel pin so that Hunter could overhear him.\par
\ldblquote How far is it to the palace?\rdblquote  Steve asked.\par
Bedwyr laughed. \ldblquote In this village? You\rquote ve seen it. Nothing is more than a few minutes\rquote  walk.\rdblquote\par
Steve knew Hunter would get the message from that exchange. They walked in silence through the streets. When they turned a corner, they left the taverns behind.\par
A single torch burned in a holder over the main entrance to the palace. Two bored sentries sat on stools, cradling their spears. They looked up with interest when they heard footsteps approaching.\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s Bedwyr,\rdblquote  he called out. \ldblquote And a new friend. Good evening, Aetius. Wake up,  Drustan.\rdblquote\par
They both grinned. \ldblquote What are you doing here, Bedwyr? The taverns are still open.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote My friend Steve, here, now rides under Lucius. He seeks a friend who may be in the palace.\rdblquote\par
Drustan frowned. \ldblquote He can\rquote t go inside at this hour. In the morning, maybe.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t need to go inside,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote My friend is called MC 6.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Strange name,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr.\par
\ldblquote He may have taken another on his travels. Maybe I could describe him to you. He\rquote s a little guy, slender and about so high.\rdblquote  Steve held his hand at MC 6\rquote s height.  \ldblquote He probably doesn\rquote t talk much, but he\rquote s very agreeable. If you tell him to do something, he just does it. And he never hurts anybody-he won\rquote t fight, but he\rquote ll try to stop a fight between other people. Have you seen him?\rdblquote\par
The sentries looked at each other.\par
\ldblquote Well,  there\rquote s little Patricius,\rdblquote  said Drustan. \ldblquote He\rquote s only twelve.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m looking for a grown man,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote Just a little one.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Medraut\rquote s not too big,\rdblquote  said Aetius. \ldblquote But he\rquote s no stranger. He\rquote s Artorius\rquote s nephew.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote One of the cooks caught him scrapping with another young rascal yesterday,\rdblquote  said Drustan. \ldblquote Medraut picks fights all the time.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You sure he\rquote s that little?\rdblquote  Aetius asked. \ldblquote Maybe he\rquote s gotten his growth since you saw him last.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well...it was only a few months ago.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I fear we haven\rquote t seen anyone like that,\rdblquote  said Drustan. \ldblquote We would notice, I think. But maybe he works in the village somewhere.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Maybe so. Thank you.\rdblquote  Steve sighed. Hunter had certainly heard the entire exchange.  MC 6 probably had not returned to full size yet. \ldblquote Bedwyr, shall we visit another tavern? I\rquote ll buy.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not so fast,\rdblquote  said Drustan, grinning. \ldblquote Artorius has been coming out for a quick walk every evening. He may come out any minute.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You mean I could meet him?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If he walks out in the same mood as usual, he\rquote ll have no objection. He likes to mix with the men this time of year, as the campaign season approaches.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I think I\rquote ll hang around.\rdblquote  Steve laughed. \ldblquote You mind, Bedwyr?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not at all. I\rquote ll linger with you. It can\rquote t hurt to have a good word with the man at the top.\rdblquote\par
\par
10\par
\par
Back in the hut, Jane helped Ygerna prepare another pot of mutton stew. At first, Ygerna had tried to dissuade her guest, but Jane had simply laughed lightly and picked up a knife to cut meat. Ygerna baked more bread and carefully seasoned the new stew with the sea salt Emrys had brought from the village.\par
Ishihara had gone outside to cut more firewood in the twilight. Emrys stacked the pieces. Wayne alternately paced outside restlessly and sat on a stool inside the hut. The children, now growing accustomed to their visitors, paid less attention to them.\par
As she cut chunks of mutton, Jane tried to decide how to proceed. Now that she knew Hunter and Steve had joined the troop of riders, she could try to get their attention. On the other hand, Wayne and Ishihara surely knew she hoped to do that. When they went to the village tomorrow, she expected Ishihara would become even more attentive to her than usual to prevent her from escaping. Her greatest fear was that Wayne would leave her here with Ishihara. Then she would have no chance.\par
Wayne and Ishihara came inside the hut, followed by Emrys. Jane glanced up but said nothing. Emrys closed the door behind him.\par
\ldblquote Shall I tell Jane?\rdblquote  Ishihara asked Wayne.\par
\ldblquote Might as well.\rdblquote  Wayne shrugged.\par
\ldblquote I have spoken with Emrys about tomorrow,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote Based on the number of ewes pregnant in his flock, he has decided to take more sheep to the village tomorrow. We will go with him to look for MC 6.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Okay.\rdblquote   Jane shrugged, feigning indifference. Actually, she was deeply relieved.  Apparently they were going to take her; that meant she might have a chance to get away.\par
\par
When the main doors of the palace opened, Steve tensed with excitement. Six men came out, wearing now-familiar plain wool tunics and leather boots and leggings; a servant inside closed the doors again. Both sentries stood up alertly.\par
The man in front smiled at the sentries. \ldblquote Good evening, men. Did I wake you?\rdblquote\par
Drustan and Aetius both laughed and shook their heads, their admiration for him evident in their faces.\par
\ldblquote No,  sir, Riothamus,\rdblquote  said Drustan. \ldblquote Not us.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well,  I know this is boring duty. I did my turns on watch when I was young.\rdblquote\par
Steve tried to get a good look at Artorius Riothamus in the flickering torchlight. He seemed to be in his early thirties, of average height and a medium build. His shoulder-length hair was light brown, as was the narrow, neatly clipped beard along his jawline.\par
\ldblquote Good evening, sir,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr politely. He, too, looked fascinated.\par
\ldblquote Good evening to you.\rdblquote  Artorius looked at him in the uneven torchlight. \ldblquote Ah, Bedwyr,  isn\rquote t it? You lead one of the scouting patrols.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s right, sir.\rdblquote\par
Artorius looked at Steve. \ldblquote I don\rquote t believe I know you, friend.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I,  uh-\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote This is Steve, a man from the eastern end of the Roman Empire,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr. \ldblquote He and a friend from Linnuis have joined Lucius\rquote s troop.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Ah!  I\rquote m glad to hear it. Welcome, Steve.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Thank you,\rdblquote  Steve said shyly.\par
\ldblquote Have you and your friend ridden before? Can you sit a horse?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,  sir.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good.\rdblquote   Artorius laughed lightly and gave Steve a pat on the shoulder as he passed. \ldblquote We need you.\rdblquote  He and his entourage walked on down the street.\par
Steve turned to watch him go. Artorius was personable and unpretentious, but he also came across as reserved, confident, and supportive of his men. Steve liked him and realized that this personal magnetism, combined with his military successes, helped create the legend that grew after his death.\par
\ldblquote Still ready for another drink?\rdblquote  Bedwyr asked him cheerfully.\par
\ldblquote Sure.\rdblquote\par
\par
Harriet had accepted the invitation of Gwenhyvaer, the young woman she had befriended,  to her small room. She had recognized the name as the original Welsh from which the more modern\par
\ldblquote Guinevere\rdblquote   had been derived. Now a fire burned brightly in a stone fireplace; candles lit the corners of the room. The two women sat on each side of the stone hearth,  with fur lap-robes keeping their legs warm.\par
Gwenhyvaer was stitching the hem of a gown by the firelight. Watching her, Harriet decided that Gwenhyvaer was even younger than Harriet had first thought. Most likely,  she was still in her late teens, which made her an adult in this culture.\par
\ldblquote How many children do you have?\rdblquote  Gwenhwyvaer asked, glancing up from her sewing.\par
\ldblquote Uh-none.\rdblquote   Because she and Hunter had not discussed that question, she was caught unprepared.\par
\ldblquote No?\rdblquote   Gwenhwyvaer\rquote s eyes widened in surprise.\par
Harriet shrugged, suppressing a smile. \ldblquote No.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh,  my. Did they...I mean, did they die young? Or you never had any?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I never had any.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s so sad. How does your husband feel about this? Doesn\rquote t he want sons?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We no longer worry about it,\rdblquote  said Harriet. \ldblquote It\rquote s all right.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I hope I have children who grow up.\rdblquote  Gwenhyvaer smiled shyly. \ldblquote My father says Artorius likes me. He\rquote s hoping to arrange for us to be married.\rdblquote\par
Harriet smiled at her youthful embarrassment. \ldblquote You must love him.\rdblquote\par
She giggled. \ldblquote Every woman I know does, I think. At least, the younger ones.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Has your father been with Artorius long?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh,  yes. He\rquote s been advising him on Roman cavalry tactics. My father is part Roman.  He served in the legions in Gaul until about ten years ago. So did his father,  before the legions left Britain. He was stationed up by Hadrian\rquote s Wall, on the Pictish border.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I see. You come from a long line of soldiers.\rdblquote\par
Gwenhwyvaer nodded soberly. \ldblquote The men will be going on campaign soon. My grandfather died in a battle. I wish my father would stay home.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He still rides with Artorius, then?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote   She sighed. \ldblquote But of course he needs my father. The Saxons keep coming and coming. Father says Artorius must ride out and fight them on their land, not wait for them to march here.\rdblquote\par
Harriet stifled a yawn and glanced at the sleep pallet that servants had prepared for her. With the fire nearby, and using the fur lap-robe as a coverlet, she would be warm here tonight. For now, however,. she would stay up talking as late as her hostess wished.\par
Looking at Gwenhwyvaer, Harriet thought to herself that this teenager could not possibly ever imagine the kind of role she would play in Arthurian legend,  fictional though it would become-or across how many centuries she would be remembered, at least in some form.\par
\par
Jane found the morning routine at the hut the same as the day before. Everyone at the hut ate breakfast and Emrys picked out which sheep he would drive to the village. The only difference, as Emrys drove the cart behind the small flock again, was that he did not take any more firewood. Jane guessed that his family had no more wood to spare. Without the need to load the cart, they left earlier than they had yesterday.\par
On the way, Jane watched the main gate of the tor ahead, to see the troop of riders again. This time, however, the riders did not leave before Emrys brought his small flock and the cart up to the gate. As they started up the steep,  cobbled road to the village, Jane saw the riders gather around some sort of storage building and the paddock, saddling their horses and leading them toward the gate. She could not see Hunter and Steve in the crowd, so she assumed they were inside the building.\par
\ldblquote I want to ask Emrys to stop,\rdblquote  Ishihara said suddenly to Wayne. \ldblquote Do I have your permission?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course,\rdblquote  said Wayne.\par
Jane tensed.\par
\par
Steve stood behind Hunter just inside the tack building, waiting in line to pick up their saddles and bridles. They had just finished a bland but plentiful breakfast of hot cereal; Hunter identified wheat and barley in it. Then they had walked down the slope, where Hunter had picked up his leather armor from the armorer and laced it on.\par
Steve\rquote s arms and shoulders were sore from the unaccustomed exercise the previous day.\par
\ldblquote Hunter,  by the time this is over, I\rquote ll be in great shape.\rdblquote  He grinned and moved up with the line. \ldblquote Do you think we should stay with the troop even though MC 6 isn\rquote t in it?\rdblquote  He lowered his voice. \ldblquote Maybe we could try for duty in the village, to be nearer the palace.\rdblquote\par
Hunter turned, looking over Steve\rquote s head out the open door behind them.\par
\ldblquote What is it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Silence,  please,\rdblquote  Hunter said quietly.\par
Steve waited patiently, though other men continued to talk around them. Horses snorted and their hooves clopped outside. Steve guessed that Hunter was attempting to sort out some other sound, but he had no idea what it could be.\par
\ldblquote Come outside with me,\rdblquote  said Hunter. He left the line and moved back toward the door.  The men behind him made room for him and Steve followed closely.\par
\ldblquote What is it?\rdblquote  Steve asked quietly.\par
\ldblquote I heard the footstep pattern of Wayne Nystrom nearby.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yeah?\rdblquote   Suddenly excited, Steve hurried out the door after him. \ldblquote Jane must be close.\rdblquote\par
Hunter stopped abruptly. Steve did, too, when he saw Wayne simply walking right up to them with a smirk. He seemed to be alone.\par
\ldblquote Where\rquote s Jane?\rdblquote  Steve demanded.\par
\ldblquote Don\rquote t worry. You know Ishihara can\rquote t allow any harm to come to her.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yeah?  He\rquote s not here to protect you.\rdblquote  Angrily, Steve took a step toward him.  Before he took a second step, however, he felt Hunter take his upper arm from behind and hold him firmly in place.\par
\ldblquote Stop,\rdblquote   Hunter added calmly.\par
\ldblquote Where is she?\rdblquote  Steve demanded again.\par
\ldblquote Why have you approached us?\rdblquote  Hunter asked. \ldblquote Do you have something to say?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I certainly do.\rdblquote  Wayne grinned. \ldblquote Let\rquote s negotiate a little.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote On what basis?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ve been here a week. That\rquote s given me time to start a routine here, to get settled.  And to make a few friends. I\rquote m not desperate here, as I was in Roman Germany.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You say you\rquote ve been here a week,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote Does that mean you sent Jane and Ishihara somewhere else?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No comment,\rdblquote  said Wayne, snickering. \ldblquote But I remind you that Ishihara follows my instructions. I intend to hold Jane hostage in return for MC 6, if you should find him before I do. And he must be untouched and unexamined.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I understand your terms,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote You can\rquote t just accept that,\rdblquote  Steve said hotly, looking up at him.\par
\ldblquote I cannot endanger Jane,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote You know that, of course.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ll give you some time to think about it,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote But I warn you not to follow me to find anyone. If we have to jump through time to get away from you,  I may not make an offer like this again.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Acknowledged,\rdblquote   said Hunter.\par
Wayne,  still smiling triumphantly, turned and hurried away through the crowd of men and horses.\par
\par
11\par
\par
\ldblquote Grab him,\rdblquote   said Steve, pulling against Hunter\rquote s unbreakable grip. \ldblquote We can hold him as a hostage for Jane. You can call Ishihara and tell him. Ishihara can\rquote t let either of them come to harm, so he\rquote d have to give in.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I do not dare,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote I have no indication of where they are. Wayne may have left them in another time or in a place out of range of my signal. He may have left Ishihara with standing instructions or First Law interpretations that would cloud the First Law imperative to release Jane. Making an attempt could simply anger Wayne and cause him to withdraw his offer.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well,  what\rquote s wrong with that?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Maintaining negotiations will provide Wayne with an incentive to stay in contact with us.  If Jane is nearby, we may eventually be able to track him back to her, or at least surmise her general vicinity.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well...\rdblquote   Steve tried to think of another objection, but could not. \ldblquote How about calling Ishihara anyway, and trying to get him to release her?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Have you forgotten? I have continued to call Ishihara at intervals ever since we arrived. He has not responded.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh,  yeah. But we could just follow Wayne now and find out whatever we can.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I dare not. Besides, the troop is about to go out on maneuvers, remember?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We don\rquote t have to stay.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Leaving so soon will complicate our ongoing presence here. We must maintain our place in the troop for now.\rdblquote  Hunter turned, drawing Steve with him. \ldblquote We must get our saddles and bridles. Again, we will be among the last to ride out.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yeah,  all right.\rdblquote  Steve joined him at the end of the line again. \ldblquote So you think Ishihara has Jane in some other time?\rdblquote\par
Hunter released his arm. \ldblquote That is not my first estimate. I acknowledge the possibility because it prevents me from acting too rashly, but I doubt the likelihood. Ishihara would probably insist on remaining in the company of both humans to protect them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He wasn\rquote t with Wayne right now,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote And in the past, you\rquote ve been willing to take a chance on one of your educated guesses.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I wish to prioritize caution at the moment. I believe Ishihara and Jane are probably fairly close. They may be in the village or out in the countryside,  but I could not hear or see any sign of them. If we bide our time, I may pick up some clue to their location. Then we can act more aggressively.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But you\rquote re still just guessing.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I am making a calculation of the odds.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Uh,  right.\rdblquote\par
Hunter said nothing for a moment. When he spoke again, he lowered his voice. \ldblquote Harriet just called to say she is well. She remains with the women in the palace.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good.  That\rquote s something in our favor.\rdblquote\par
They picked up their saddles and bridles and carried them out to their mounts.\par
\par
Jane sat in the back of the cart up in the village, near the palace doors. Emrys haggled over the sheep with the same man as the day before. From here inside the walls, she could not see the slope or exactly where Wayne had gone, but she could guess. Ishihara and Wayne had conferred in whispers before Wayne hopped out and Emrys drove up to the palace to sell his sheep.\par
She knew that Ishihara must have told Wayne something about the location of Hunter and Steve. Because she had not seen or heard any sign of them, she supposed Ishihara\rquote s enhanced hearing had brought him their voices in the distance. She had no real optimism that she could talk Ishihara into changing sides, but she decided to try raising some doubts again.\par
\ldblquote The First Law was never intended for situations like this,\rdblquote  Jane said quietly.\par
\ldblquote What do you mean?\rdblquote  Ishihara asked. \ldblquote I have kept you from harm.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You\rquote re keeping me prisoner. I would be safer with Hunter. You already know that. I say you are violating the First Law by holding me now that Hunter has arrived.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What form of harm are you suffering?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m being harmed simply by having to stay with you. It\rquote s not my choice.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Wayne Nystrom will be harmed if his career is destroyed. I intend to balance his concerns with yours. Neither of you will suffer direct physical harm.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Think about the intention of the First Law. Do you really believe that kidnapping was included?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote To prevent a human from being harmed, it has been an option throughout the history of positronic robots. Otherwise, it would have been explicitly prohibited.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I say you are wrong, Ishihara. Think about it.\rdblquote  Jane spoke firmly but did not feel encouraged. Wayne had obviously given Ishihara some effective arguments of his own at some point and, after all, Wayne was also a roboticist.\par
\par
Hunter found the maneuvers today to be a repeat of the day before. He put most of his effort into avoiding injuring his opponents. While he remained close to Steve,  he observed that Steve learned very quickly and did not need specific help.\par
The day wore on uneventfully. Finally, late in the afternoon, Lucius ordered the troop back to the tor. When the weapons, armor, tack, and horses had been put away, Hunter and Steve walked back up to the village.\par
Steve looked up at him, grinning. \ldblquote The trouble with this stuff is, the more time I spend riding and fighting, the more tired I get. The more time you spend out in the sunlight, the more energy you draw from your converters. Imagine what an army of robots could do here.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We could not fight humans,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote We would be useless as an army.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I was just speculating. Think about it-\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It makes me uncomfortable to consider it,\rdblquote  Hunter said abruptly.\par
\ldblquote All right. Sorry.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Harriet called me again just now. She and one of the women she has met have gone for a walk in the village. We will look for them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Okay.\rdblquote\par
In the village, Hunter saw Harriet standing with a much younger woman by a stall that sold crockery. Before he and Steve reached them, however, Bedwyr walked out of the crowd, munching on a piece of bread. Steve had introduced him to Hunter last night before they had returned to the camp.\par
\ldblquote Well,  Hunter, how do you like your training?\rdblquote  Bedwyr turned to Steve. \ldblquote You have no broken bones, I see.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No,  we are fine,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote Come with us,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote We\rquote re going to speak to a friend. We\rquote ll introduce you.\rdblquote\par
Bedwyr fell into step with them.\par
\ldblquote Harriet!\rdblquote   Steve called cheerfully.\par
Harriet turned and waved.\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s your friend?\rdblquote  Bedwyr\rquote s eyebrows rose. \ldblquote She\rquote s with Gwenhyvaer.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Did you say \lquote Guinevere\rquote ?\rdblquote  Steve asked in surprise.\par
\ldblquote You say it oddly,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr. \ldblquote If you know the name, though, you must have heard.  Rumor says Artorius will make her queen.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote She\rquote s just a kid,\rdblquote  Steve muttered.\par
\ldblquote She has her growth.\rdblquote  Bedwyr laughed. \ldblquote Not too young to become a queen, eh?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You know her?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Only by sight.\rdblquote\par
When they reached the stall, Harriet introduced Gwenhyvaer to Hunter and Steve. In turn, Steve introduced them both to Bedwyr. Gwenhyvaer nodded primly to them all and turned back to the crockery.\par
\ldblquote We met Bedwyr in the village last night,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote We drank together.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We won\rquote t see many taverns on the campaign,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr, grinning.\par
\ldblquote Are you from this area?\rdblquote  Harriet asked. \ldblquote I wondered what it\rquote s like. We\rquote re from Linnuis.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,  my village is not far. Half a day\rquote s ride. Life is good there. But we must send good men to ride with Artorius, or else the Saxons will have it all.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Would you tell me about your village? Really tell me, I mean.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote As you wish, of course. I doubt it\rquote s much different from your own.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Let\rquote s sit down somewhere and visit,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote What do you say, Hunter? After all that riding today, I\rquote d like to relax.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You go on,\rdblquote  Gwenhyvaer said to Harriet. \ldblquote After I browse some more, I\rquote m going back to the palace. I\rquote ll remind the sentries to let you in.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote  All right.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I have no objection,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\par
Wayne encouraged Emrys to leave the village at midday, while Hunter and Steve remained on maneuvers with the troop. He did not know for sure if Hunter would cooperate with his demands or not. However, he told Ishihara to keep a careful watch behind them as the cart left the tor, and Ishihara reported no sign that Hunter or Steve had followed them.\par
In the late afternoon, Emrys left the hut to hike back to his son, tending the main flock. Wayne waited until Jane used the outhouse and was out of hearing.  Then he approached Ishihara and spoke quietly.\par
\ldblquote Hunter almost certainly spotted us leaving the tor,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote He will know which direction we took. What do you think the chances are that he will risk trying to rescue Jane instead of catching MC 6 and trading him to me?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He has a great deal of room for interpretation of the First Law in this case,\rdblquote   said Ishihara. \ldblquote However, I believe that my presence gives him the freedom to move slowly.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I think so, too. Without you, he would feel he had to rescue Jane right away because I can\rquote t protect her effectively alone. You can.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.  Given that Hunter knows I must keep Jane from harm, he does not have to come for her immediately.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote When I spoke to Hunter, I got the impression that he accepted my terms,\rdblquote  said Wayne.  \ldblquote He\rquote ll consider trading MC 6 to me for Jane. But I have to ask if you\rquote ll allow it. I don\rquote t know of any interpretation of the First Law that will cause you to prevent this deal. Do you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No.  As long as I protect you and Jane until the time that she is released directly to Hunter\rquote s care, I can cooperate with you in this.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I must offer another interpretation of Hunter\rquote s moves, however.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Hunter may not worry about Jane further, since he knows I must take care of her. He may just get MC 6 and forget about dealing with you for her.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You think he can do that under the First Law?\rdblquote  Wayne frowned, gazing out over the cool, gray sky in the distance over Cadbury Tor.\par
\ldblquote Perhaps.  I cannot be certain. However, since MC 6 is the only component robot remaining at large, Hunter knows you will have no further interest in Jane if he simply takes MC 6 back to our time.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You mean he\rquote ll figure you and I will just return, too, and let Jane go.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He knows I cannot allow harm to come to Jane. That may free him to ignore your deal entirely.\rdblquote\par
Wayne drew in a long, slow breath and let it out again. \ldblquote I must proceed on the assumption that the First Law will pressure him to act more aggressively toward Jane. To that end, I may instruct you to remain here with Jane while I return to Cadbury. Will this be acceptable under your interpretation of the First Law?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I do not like separating from you. I must protect you, as well.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote In the absence of a clear danger under the First Law, you should have no problem.  Cadbury will be safe for me. Do you agree?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote   Ishihara lowered his voice. \ldblquote If you wish this to remain private, we must change the subject. Jane is coming back.\rdblquote\par
\par
Hunter sat down in a small tavern with Bedwyr, Harriet, and Steve. Harriet asked Bedwyr many detailed questions about life in his village; Hunter could hear the historian behind her questions. Steve listened politely, sipping from a goblet of mead, sprawled back in his seat comfortably.\par
A bell began to ring loudly, clearly, and rhythmically outside. Bedwyr promptly put his goblet down on the table and got up. Then he looked in surprise at the others, who had not moved.\par
The other patrons in the tavern, and the tavern-keeper, hurried out the door.\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s the village bell,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote Aren\rquote t you coming? Important news must have come.\rdblquote\par
Steve started to get up.\par
\ldblquote No,\rdblquote   said Hunter, gently placing a hand on Steve\rquote s arm. \ldblquote Please inform us of the news.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote As you wish.\rdblquote  Bedwyr shrugged and hurried out of the tavern.\par
Outside,  Hunter heard many feet from allover the village moving quickly up and down the streets.\par
\ldblquote What\rquote s wrong, Hunter?\rdblquote  Steve asked.\par
\ldblquote The three of us have not had a chance to confer freely for some time,\rdblquote  said Hunter.  \ldblquote We can talk now and find out what the news is later.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well,  what do you want to talk about?\rdblquote  Steve set down his goblet.\par
\ldblquote If MC 6 has not returned to full size, or if we cannot find any clue to his location, Steve and I may have to consider leaving the troop we have joined. If we do, I judge that we cannot expect to be welcome in the village any longer.  Is this accurate?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,  if you just quit or disappear,\rdblquote  said Harriet thoughtfully. \ldblquote No army tolerates deserters, though in this time, organization is not very formal. Quitting now probably would mean that you would simply not be welcome back. Deserting on campaign, however, is likely a hanging offense. But I wonder if you can arrange to be reassigned to garrison duty here in the tor.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Is that likely?\rdblquote  Hunter asked.\par
\ldblquote No.  New arrivals are not likely to be trusted. But I can ask Gwenhyvaer if she can help.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If we go out on campaign, we could be wasting valuable time,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote But suppose this is necessary. Will you be safe here?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.  Gwenhyvaer seems to like me. And if my husband has gone out to fight with Artorius, I will look better to everyone in the palace.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I asked a couple of sentries last night if they had seen anyone of MC 6\rquote s description in the palace,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote I guess if you\rquote d heard anything like that, you would have said so already.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,  I would have.\rdblquote  Harriet shook her head. \ldblquote MC 6 may not be in the palace, though.  He could be working in the village during the day and either spending the night hidden away in the village or out in the countryside nearby.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He could still be microscopic,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote We are searching in a relatively small area with a modest population. If he had returned to full size and had remained in the village, we should have found someone who has seen him by now.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We haven\rquote t offered a reward here, like we have before,\rdblquote  said Steve.\par
\ldblquote I can do that,\rdblquote  said Harriet. \ldblquote If I remain here to cover the village, then you can see if he appears with the riders at some point.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You seem very comfortable here,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote Hunter,  I might as well tell you something,\rdblquote  said Harriet slowly. \ldblquote As I mentioned before, I do not believe in chaos theory at all. I\rquote m willing to fulfill my commitment to you in finding MC 6, but then I want to stay in this time.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Forever?\rdblquote   Steve sat up in his chair, startled. \ldblquote Are you crazy?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Maybe.\rdblquote   Harriet smiled. \ldblquote But I used to dream about living in this time-the focus of my professional research. And when Hunter told me about the mission to travel back in time, I knew I wanted to do it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You accepted this job with the intention of staying here?\rdblquote  Hunter asked.\par
\ldblquote Yes.  I admit it. But I waited to make my final decision until after I had seen what my prospects would be. Since I have the advantage of hindsight, I can use it to improve my chances. For instance, I know before Gwenhyvaer and Artorius themselves that they will marry. I intend to position myself as a mentor and friend to her. After my husband disappears, maybe in battle against the Saxons,  I will be an honored widow. I hope she will accept me as a personal servant.\rdblquote\par
Hunter said nothing. On the second mission, which took the team to Jamaica in the seventeenth century to capture MC 2, he had hired a historian named Rita Chavez. Rita had decided to go out on her own only on impulse, after the team had arrived there. Her leaving the team had endangered the mission, but she had eventually changed her mind and returned to the team. Harriet remained willing to fulfill her duties, apparently, but she seemed to have made a much more calm and studied decision not to return to their own time.\par
\ldblquote Have you really thought this through?\rdblquote  Steve demanded. \ldblquote What kind of doctors do they have here? What happens if you get sick, or get hurt?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,  I\rquote ve thought it through. I\rquote m not one to romanticize this era-if anything, I know it better than most people from our time.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Before we left, you said this was a time of social and political transition,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote The border between the Britons and the Saxons fluctuates. Why do you want to live in a time that is so unstable?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote In terms of scholarly study, this time is unstable. Very little from these years will last for as long as another century, when the Saxons conquer and settle throughout all of what will become England. But for one middle-aged woman like me, life in a village far from the military front will be very routine, day in and day out.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What will you do when the Saxons come?\rdblquote  Steve frowned. \ldblquote That time can\rquote t be very routine.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Again,  I\rquote m using the advantage of historical hindsight. The efforts of Artorius and his men will hold off the Saxons for the rest of my lifetime. My presence won\rquote t change that. Even under the worst circumstances, I\rquote ll be gone before the Saxons reach this area.\rdblquote\par
Hunter did not respond. The First Law required him to take Harriet back both for her own safety and because of his own belief in chaos theory. The harm to her in returning would be virtually nonexistent, yet in his opinion, the potential harm to the future if she stayed remained very large. If necessary, he would take her back under duress, and he did not want to tell her that; she might decide to run away, as Rita had. In any case, this matter would have to wait until the team was ready to leave this time again.\par
\par
From the R. Hunter Files\par
\par
\par
The now-famous prototype of the highly successful \ldblquote Hunter\rdblquote  class robot first demonstrated his remarkable abilities in the Mojave Center Governor case. The following images are drawn from the Robot City archives of Derec Avery, the eminent robotics historian.\par
\par
\par
R. Hunter\rquote s different incarnations. The Hunter robot is able to assume different forms, including those pictured here: human form, standard robot mode, and full battle array.\par
\par
\par
MC robots merged. The final independent component of MC Governor is captured by R. Hunter in the distant past and merged with the remaining five.\par
\par
\par
The Bohung Institute. A security robot patrols the Institute\rquote s perimeter.\par
\par
\par
MC Governor confronts R. Hunter. Following MC Governor\rquote s capture and reintegration, R. Hunter confronts him in his office.\par
\par
\par
King Artorius.  Flanked by R. Hunter and Steve, the king prepares for battle.\par
\par
\par
Cadbury Castle.  The primary base of Artorius\rquote s men, this castle is the basis of the Camelot legend.\par
\par
\par
Medical Robot. R.  Cushing, the medical robot that provided vaccinations and treatments for R.  Hunter\rquote s team for all their journeys.\par
\par
\par
Room F-12.  The time travel apparatus used by both R. Hunter and his teams and Wayne Nystrom and R. Ishihara to chase MC Governor is guarded by R.  Daladier and another security robot, in the event that Nystrom returns.\par
\par
\par
Observing the Saxon soldiers. Bedwyr joins R. Hunter and Steve in observing the movements o f the Saxon troops.\par
\par
12\par
\par
Bedwyr ran back into the tavern, out of breath. Behind him, Hunter could see other people running through the street. Shouts came from allover the village.\par
\ldblquote What is it?\rdblquote  Steve asked, looking up.\par
\ldblquote A scouting patrol just came back from the Saxon border.\rdblquote  Bedwyr paused to catch his breath. \ldblquote A new fleet of Saxons has crossed the Channel. With their brethren already in Britain, they are preparing to march soon.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What will Artorius do?\rdblquote  Hunter asked.\par
\ldblquote He already came out to speak. That\rquote s why the bell rang. He has issued orders for us to march tomorrow.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Most of his army is not here,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s right,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr. \ldblquote His personal troop and Lucius\rquote s green recruits are the only ones. But couriers are being sent to the countryside to tell all the veterans to meet us on our line of march.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Can they arrive in time?\rdblquote  Steve asked.\par
\ldblquote Of course.\rdblquote  Bedwyr laughed. \ldblquote Remember, we are all mounted. The Saxons march on their own sorry feet. We will gather long before we meet them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote When do we leave?\rdblquote  Hunter asked. \ldblquote Tonight?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No,  no. Attack is not imminent, only the need to open the campaign. The baggage train must be assembled and that work will go on late into the night. In the morning, we will ride.\rdblquote\par
Hunter turned to Harriet. \ldblquote Will you be welcome in the palace indefinitely? If not, we must find another place for you. We should begin now.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ll talk to Gwenhyvaer about it right away,\rdblquote  said Harriet, standing. \ldblquote She must have heard the bell, too. I imagine the whole palace is buzzing.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What about us?\rdblquote  Steve asked Bedwyr. \ldblquote Do we have to report to the camp right away?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course not!\rdblquote  Bedwyr laughed and sat down in his chair again. \ldblquote Every man not on sentry duty will be coming to the taverns soon! It\rquote s our last night of freedom!  Now where\rquote s that tavernkeeper-still out in the street?\rdblquote\par
\par
Jane knelt by the fire, setting out bowls on the hearth. Just as Ygerna began to ladle mutton stew into the bowls, hoofbeats sounded outside. Emrys and Ishihara went out into the twilight to see who was coming. Wayne remained on a stool near the door, which was left ajar.\par
Ygerna paid no attention as she ladled out the stew. Jane feigned disinterest but listened carefully. A single horse cantered right up to the front of the hut.\par
\ldblquote Does anyone here ride with Artorius?\rdblquote  An unfamiliar man\rquote s voice called out.\par
\ldblquote No,\rdblquote   said Emrys. \ldblquote Why?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Artorius rides tomorrow! Spread the word to anyone who rides with him. The Saxons are marching!\rdblquote  The hoofbeats cantered away.\par
Emrys came back inside. At the same moment, Wayne got up and slipped outside,  blocking Ishihara from entering. He closed the door behind him.\par
\ldblquote I sold my sheep just in time.\rdblquote  Emrys grinned. \ldblquote Did you hear?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Artorius rides tomorrow,\rdblquote  said Ygerna. \ldblquote That\rquote s good. He will defeat the Saxons again this year.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The other shepherds will have to leave at dawn to drive their sheep to the tor,\rdblquote   said Emrys, coming to take a bowl of stew from Ygerna. \ldblquote Even then, they may not arrive until after he has left. If they want to sell their sheep to him after that, they will have to chase the baggage train.\rdblquote\par
Jane tensed, wondering what this would mean to her. If Hunter and Steve had to maintain the goodwill of those around them, she supposed they would have to go.  She knew that Wayne was conferring with Ishihara at that moment about the same question. They would have to decide what to do and, in particular, what to do with her.\par
The central issue remained the same as before, the whereabouts of MC 6. If MC 6 went on campaign with Artorius, then Hunter and Steve would also go. Wayne could not possibly find out if MC 6 was going before tomorrow, but he might decide that if Hunter went, he should go.\par
Jane tried to figure out what Ishihara would do if Wayne decided to follow Artorius.  In her judgment, Ishihara could neither let Wayne follow a troop of riders going to war alone, nor could he leave Jane here indefinitely. Therefore,  Ishihara would have to take her, too.\par
She still did not know for sure if Hunter and Steve would go with Artorius or attempt something else.\par
\par
Early the next morning, Steve sat by the campfire next to Hunter, eating a bowl of hot cereal. The night before, Hunter had told Steve that Harriet had called him to report that Gwenhyvaer would give her lodging for as long as her husband was gone on campaign. Now, everyone around them spoke excitedly of riding out today. As soon as each squad had finished breakfast, they put out their fire and hurried to the other side of the tor to prepare their horses.\par
When Cynric led his squad around the slope, Steve moved close to Hunter and spoke quietly.\par
\ldblquote You want to take one more quick walk through the village? If MC 6 isn\rquote t going with Artorius, either microscopically or at full size, we really are wasting our time.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I dare not,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote We must maintain our standing here.\rdblquote\par
This time, as the riders lined up to get their tack and their weapons, teamsters hitched horses to wagons. Baggage handlers loaded spare weapons and armor into some of them. Some teamsters drove empty wagons up to the village; others drove loaded wagons back.\par
\ldblquote I see MC 6,\rdblquote  said Hunter softly, looking out over the slope from his place in line.\par
\ldblquote What?  Where?\rdblquote  Steve fought to remain calm. \ldblquote Maybe we can get him before we leave.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He is riding in the back of the second wagon coming down the slope from the village.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yeah,  I guess I see him now. I couldn\rquote t have recognized him for sure at this distance.\rdblquote  Steve hesitated. \ldblquote You\rquote re sure that\rquote s him?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.  When we see where the wagon goes, we can decide whether or not to approach it immediately.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You mean, we\rquote ll just grab him right now?\rdblquote  Steve asked in surprise.\par
\ldblquote We should move as soon as we can do so safely and successfully.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But what about Jane? We can\rquote t grab MC 6 and just walk away from here to get her. If we don\rquote t jump right back to our own time, we\rquote ll have to go on campaign. And if that\rquote s the case, I don\rquote t think we should alert MC 6 to the fact that we\rquote re after him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We must take MC 6 immediately back to their own time, leave him securely in MC Governor\rquote s office, and then come back for Jane.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What about Wayne\rquote s threat?\rdblquote  Steve asked. \ldblquote He can order Ishihara away from Jane, so she won\rquote t be protected.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Our first responsibility remains returning MC 6 to our own time. Further, I do not believe that Wayne truly would endanger Jane. I judge him to be a man who would threaten this in the hope of influencing me under the First Law, but who would not carry out the threat.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m not so sure.\rdblquote\par
The wagon in which MC 6 rode pulled up near the main gate of the outer rampart,  behind some other loaded wagons.\par
\ldblquote We\rquote re moving to the front of the line,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote Are we going to get our tack first, or just go now?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We should waste no more time,\rdblquote  said Hunter decisively. \ldblquote Come.\rdblquote\par
Hunter stepped out of the line and angled quickly across the slope, down toward the loaded wagons. Most of the teamsters sat holding the reins, simply waiting, but a few of them stood on the ground, adjusting harnesses or ropes holding cargo.\par
\ldblquote Can\rquote t he tell somehow that you\rquote re a robot?\rdblquote  Steve asked. \ldblquote Didn\rquote t we have to consider this on earlier missions, too? What did we do?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If he studies me with magnified vision or hearing, he will detect that I do not have human skin or a heartbeat. We must gamble that he will not bother, since he has no reason to expect another robot here in this century.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh,  yeah. That\rquote s right.\rdblquote\par
Steve followed Hunter, keeping an eye on MC 6. The component robot sat in the rear of a wagon watching his surroundings alertly, but of course he had no idea that Hunter and Steve had come from their time to get him. He glanced at them casually and then looked past them, toward the paddock.\par
\ldblquote Since he is not afraid of us, we can walk right up and speak to him,\rdblquote  said Hunter.  \ldblquote Give him a direct instruction to cooperate fully with us.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What do we do after we get him?\rdblquote  Steve asked. \ldblquote We don\rquote t want to vanish with him in front of these other people. What should I say?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Your second instruction must be to jump down out of the wagon and come around behind it with us. we will hurry out the main gate. As soon as we turn the corner and stand out of sight, I will trigger the belt unit.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Got it.\rdblquote  Steve glanced at the gate, just on the other side of the wagon, and looked at MC 6 again.\par
\ldblquote Ho!  You there! What do you want?\rdblquote\par
Steve stopped, startled. Hunter turned in surprise. A tall, burly man wearing a tanned leather tunic marched up to them. He scowled through a bushy brown beard.\par
\ldblquote I say, what do you want here?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We must have a moment with this man,\rdblquote  Hunter said firmly, gesturing toward MC 6.  \ldblquote Who are you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I am Gaius, the wagonmaster.\rdblquote  He glared suspiciously at Hunter. \ldblquote What do you want with him? He doesn\rquote t speak British or Latin. The only way we can communicate with him is through gestures.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We speak his language,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
Steve almost called out to MC 6 in English, to order him to cooperate. He thought better of it, realizing that they might not get a chance to take MC 6 away from the sight of the wagonmaster. In that event, he did not want to alert MC 6 to the fact that they had come from his time to take him back.\par
\ldblquote And I asked, what do you want with him?\rdblquote  Before Hunter could answer, Gaius turned to MC 6. \ldblquote You know these men?\rdblquote  He jerked a thumb toward Hunter.\par
MC 6 looked back and forth between them. He obviously did not understand the question. He shrugged lightly, shaking his head.\par
\ldblquote You men get back to your horses,\rdblquote  said Gaius angrily. \ldblquote Now. I have wagons to line up.\rdblquote  He moved to block Hunter\rquote s path to MC 6.\par
Hunter turned and walked back up the slope. Steve hurried to keep alongside. At least they had not revealed their true intentions to MC 6.\par
\par
Jane said nothing about Wayne\rquote s plans the next morning. She helped Ygerna tend the fire, waiting to see what Wayne and Ishihara were going to do. They all ate breakfast, the same hot cereal as every other morning. Then Wayne and Ishihara stepped outside again, this time with Emrys.\par
The suspense for Jane finally ended when Ishihara came back inside alone.\par
\ldblquote Emrys will drive us to the village again today,\rdblquote  Ishihara said to Jane. \ldblquote Wayne instructed me to explain that we must search for an acquaintance there. Emrys expressed his gratitude again for my help in cutting the firewood and, by chance, causing him to drive his sheep to sell before his neighbors. So he will send his eldest son to tend the flock again and help us today, as well.\rdblquote\par
Jane nodded. She did not want Ishihara or Wayne to know that she was glad to be going, too. On her way out of the hut, she gave Ygerna a quick smile and pat on the shoulder. Jane hoped to join Hunter somehow today, which would mean she would not be back, but of course she could hardly say so.\par
This time, Emrys did not have firewood to load or sheep to drive. Ygerna gave them some bread and cold cooked mutton to take with them, wrapped first in a clean cloth, then put into a heavier cloth bag. Ishihara lifted Jane into the back of the empty cart, as before, and climbed in with her. Emrys waited for Wayne to join him in the front, then shook the reins and started out.\par
Today,  other shepherds with their flocks clogged the road to the tor. Most of them walked, with a dog or two to drive the sheep. A few others also drove mule carts, carrying either butchered carcasses or, in some cases, an entire family going for an outing.\par
Emrys,  the only shepherd without sheep or a full cart, drove a little faster. With a big grin, he waved to some of his friends as he drew near, calling out greetings occasionally. He drove off the road to pass them and their flocks,  taking the cart over the sod on one side or the other.\par
Jane watched the tor closely, hoping to arrive before the riders left the tor.  Today, however, they did not make it. The troop rode out well ahead of their arrival. Instead of breaking formation to begin maneuvers, however, the troop rode straight out along a different road, one that angled eastward across the rolling hills.\par
When she saw they were leaving, she tensed, hoping to spot whether Hunter and Steve rode with them. She did not see either of them, though she realized they might be lost in the crowd of riders. However, she decided that even if she spotted Hunt er by his height, she could not risk trying to attract his attention from this distance. Hunter might not hear her and Wayne would get angry at the attempt. She wanted to reserve her efforts for a move that would work.\par
\par
13\par
\par
Ishihara saw Hunter\rquote s head and shoulders towering above his companions, as he rode with the troop away from the tor, well ahead of Emrys\rquote s cart. Since Wayne had told him not to alert Jane unnecessarily to new information regarding Hunter, Ishihara merely leaned forward between Emrys and Wayne and pointed with one finger toward the riders. Wayne nodded.\par
After the riders had passed from the main gate, Ishihara watched a long train of wagons follow the riders out of the tor and up the road to the east. Over twenty men and women trudged behind it, failing to keep up. For a while,  Ishihara, Wayne, and Emrys continued to ride in silence. As the cart reached the main gate of the tor, after the baggage train had moved far up the road,  Wayne leaned close to Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote Who are those people walking behind the wagons?\rdblquote  Wayne asked.\par
\ldblquote I believe they are called camp followers. The women are following the soldiers and the men are scavengers, hoping to loot the dead after a battle. As the army marches, more of them will probably see it and follow, too.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Do you agree that we have to follow them all, too?\rdblquote  Wayne whispered. The sound of the mule\rquote s hooves helped camouflage his voice from Jane in the back of the cart.\par
\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote   Ishihara whispered back. \ldblquote I judge that Hunter and Steve would not go on this campaign unless they knew that MC 6 was also going.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How can we arrange to go, too?\rdblquote\par
Ishihara turned to Emrys.\par
\ldblquote We must ask you for help once again.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What is it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We would like to borrow your wagon,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote For a few days, at least.  Maybe more.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What do you want with it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We must follow a couple of friends who have left with Artorius.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You want to follow Artorius on campaign? That will take more than a few days. He could be gone until the leaves turn in autumn.\rdblquote\par
Wayne could not understand British, so he looked back and forth between them for a clue to Emrys\rquote s answer.\par
\ldblquote I can guarantee we will bring it back as soon as possible,\rdblquote  said Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote But I may need it before you return.\rdblquote  Emrys shook his head. \ldblquote You have done me several kindnesses, but I will need my cart. Maybe we can find another way for you and your friends to follow Artorius.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What do you mean?\rdblquote  Ishihara asked.\par
\ldblquote Well,  I could drive you to the baggage train. They always need men to work on the wagons during a campaign. During the summer, some may go too close to the battle and get killed; others run away to find something else.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What did he say?\rdblquote  Wayne asked.\par
Ishihara switched to English. \ldblquote He won\rquote t let us borrow his wagon. Instead, he suggested that he take us to the baggage train and we can earn our keep.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If Hunter saw us, we\rquote d be helpless. He would take Jane and me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I cannot allow it, anyway. The danger to Jane is too great in that sort of company.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yeah.\rdblquote\par
Ishihara changed languages again. \ldblquote We dare not take Jane to the baggage train. We need to find our own wagon or mounts to ride.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I understand,\rdblquote  said Emrys. \ldblquote And you want to be able to return on your own, as well, without having to walk.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
Emrys looked across the slope. Then, without a word, he shook the reins and drove the cart at an angle up the tor. They left the road leading up to the village.\par
Ishihara saw the paddock and two other buildings ahead of them. Only two animals remained in the pen and he supposed they had been left behind because they were not suitable to ride. He did not see any small carts similar to Emrys\rquote s.\par
As Emrys drew up in front of the paddock, a short, stocky man wearing a ragged leather tunic walked on a wooden crutch under his left arm from one of the buildings.\par
\ldblquote If you want to sell something, you\rquote re too late,\rdblquote  said the man with the crutch.  \ldblquote You\rquote ll have to catch up to the baggage train.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No,  no. We wish to buy,\rdblquote  said Emrys. \ldblquote Are you the master of horse?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course not.\rdblquote  The man scowled. \ldblquote The master of horse has gone with Artorius. So has the armorer. I am Antonius.\rdblquote  He hesitated. \ldblquote What do you want to buy?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote A couple of horses,\rdblquote  said Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote The price of a good horse goes up this time of year,\rdblquote  said Antonius.\par
\ldblquote Nonsense,\rdblquote   said Emrys. \ldblquote Every good horse has already been taken. You have none at all.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then what do you want here?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I will dicker with the man who can sell,\rdblquote  said Emrys. \ldblquote If you are not the master of horse, who makes the decisions here now?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well,  until Artorius returns, I do.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We want two or three mounts to ride on the road.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Just to travel? Not to join the cavalry or to pull a wagon?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right. Come and look.\rdblquote\par
Emrys and Ishihara got down and followed Antonius into the paddock. Wayne hopped down and watched but did not bother to enter the pen. Jane stayed where she was.\par
Antonius led Emrys and Ishihara to a pair of small, brown mules standing quietly.  Ishihara noticed their long ears and white noses. Both animals placidly watched them approach.\par
Emrys looked over the mules carefully. He patted them and stroked their legs and necks as he walked around them. Then he examined their teeth.\par
Finally,  Emrys took some coins out of a pouch and held them out to Antonius.\par
The other man leaned on his crutch and frowned, shaking his head.\par
Without speaking, Emrys took out one more coin and held it out.\par
Antonius shook his head again.\par
\ldblquote That is all he is worth,\rdblquote  said Emrys.\par
Antonius said nothing.\par
Emrys dropped the coins back into his pouch and walked away. Ishihara followed him.  Just as they reached the gate of the paddock, Antonius began hustling after them awkwardly on his crutch.\par
\ldblquote All right,\rdblquote  Antonius called. \ldblquote He is yours.\rdblquote\par
Emrys turned and spilled the coins carefully into his palm again. He dropped them into Antonius\rquote s outstretched hand. Then Antonius walked back to the storage building and came out with an old bridle and a long rope. In the paddock again,  he tossed them to Emrys, who slipped the bridle on one of the mules and tied the rope to rings on the bridle to use as reins. Then he led the mule out of the paddock.\par
\ldblquote I ask only that you return it to me when you come back,\rdblquote  said Emrys, holding the reins out to Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote That might not be possible,\rdblquote  said Ishihara, without accepting the reins. \ldblquote If we have to act quickly, returning it could endanger me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I know the campaign could be dangerous. Please take care of yourselves.\rdblquote  Emrys placed the reins in Ishihara\rquote s hands. \ldblquote You are...unusual friends.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Thank you. We shall bring the mule back if we are able.\rdblquote  Ishihara turned\rdblquote  and related this to Wayne, knowing that Jane could overhear him.\par
\ldblquote All right, but it\rquote s only one mule for three of us,\rdblquote  said Jane.\par
\ldblquote What else can we do?\rdblquote  Ishihara asked.\par
\ldblquote Nothing,\rdblquote   said Wayne. \ldblquote We have no money.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What\rquote s wrong with this mule?\rdblquote  Jane demanded.\par
\ldblquote What do you mean?\rdblquote  Wayne asked.\par
\ldblquote Why didn\rquote t they take him to ride? Or for the baggage train? Is he old or something?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Antonius explained,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote This mule is young and healthy but too small to put in harness. The warriors disdain riding a mule into battle and they have enough food, so no one would want to eat it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I have another suspicion, too,\rdblquote  Wayne added, lowering his voice.\par
\ldblquote What?\rdblquote   Jane asked, concerned. \ldblquote Something bad about the mule?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No,  nothing like that.\rdblquote  Wayne shook his head. \ldblquote Since Antonius is in charge here for now, I think he\rquote s going to pocket the coins Emrys paid him. So if he sells a cavalry mule and keeps all the profit, he\rquote ll be happy enough.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I am sure that Emrys cannot buy another,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote However, you and Wayne can ride this one together, bareback. He will tire more quickly than a horse carrying one rider, but the teams pulling the baggage train will tire quickly,  too. We should be able to catch up tonight after they stop to make camp.\rdblquote\par
Jane nodded. \ldblquote And you\rquote ll jog along beside us.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
Jane climbed out of the cart. Emrys handed her the bag of bread and mutton. She accepted it.\par
\ldblquote Thank you, Emrys,\rdblquote  Jane said, in Latin. \ldblquote Farewell.\rdblquote\par
Emrys understood her meaning, if not the words, and nodded politely.\par
\ldblquote This won\rquote t last us very long,\rdblquote  said Jane, turning to Ishihara. \ldblquote What else are we going to eat on the way? This might last us two small meals, but tomorrow morning, we\rquote ll be on the road somewhere.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If necessary, we can always use the belt unit to jump to another time and place for food,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote But if we\rquote re lucky, we\rquote ll find MC 6 tonight, get him to come with us, and be done with the whole mess.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right,\rdblquote  said Jane reluctantly. \ldblquote I know you don\rquote t want to starve, either. But now that I think about it, what about getting through the night? If you don\rquote t get MC 6 to follow you tonight, we\rquote ll freeze out on the road without some kind of bedrolls.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We must find blankets in the village,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote However, without money to buy them, we can only ask for Emrys to help again. I do not know how much more he will be willing and able to help.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Maybe he can afford old ones, \ldblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote Their condition won\rquote t matter, as long as they don\rquote t have bugs or anything. Please ask him.\rdblquote\par
Ishihara turned to Emrys again. \ldblquote Can we buy old, inexpensive blankets in the village? We can return them, too, with the mule.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course,\rdblquote  said Emrys. \ldblquote I know which booth to visit. I can help with that. You will need a small pot in which to heat water, too.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We will go to the village,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote Then, if our search for blankets succeeds, we will hurry on our way up the road.\rdblquote\par
\par
Steve enjoyed riding out with Artorius\rquote s cavalry, in a column of four abreast. He rode on the far right of his rank, with Hunter on his immediate left and Cynric on Hunter\rquote s other side. Another member of their squad rode on the far left,  with the remainder in the ranks behind them.\par
All of Lucius\rquote s troop of green recruits rode in the rear. No dust roiled up,  however, because of the dampness in the earth. Overhead, gray clouds drifted across the sky.\par
Around him, Steve could see the excitement in the young faces of the other riders. The thought of going to war against the hated Saxons dominated their attention.  None of them spoke now.\par
Up ahead, as the column drew away from Cadbury, the squads in the van cantered ahead of the rest. When the vanguard had opened some distance, the entire column was ordered to canter. Steve understood and kicked his mount; Artorius,  already a veteran leader, wanted his men to vent their tension.\par
When the column slowed to a walk again, Steve could see the difference. The riders around him relaxed, breathless, and began talking and laughing among themselves. Under the hooves of the horses ahead, the soft road quickly turned to muddy slop, but no one cared. The road wound east and sometimes northeast around rolling hills covered with lush green grass; clumps of trees lined the hollows among the hills.\par
\ldblquote I hear word from up ahead,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote A rumor of our destination is slowly passing back through the column, from one man to another.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well,  what is it? Where are we going?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote To the River Dubglas in Linnuis,\rdblquote  said Hunter. He lowered his voice and leaned toward Steve, switching to English.\rdblquote  According to the library data I took before we left, that is the Douglas River in modern Lincolnshire.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote River Dubglas, you say?\rdblquote  Cynric, riding on the far side of Hunter from Steve, nodded.  \ldblquote That sounds right.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote So I heard,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote We fought them by the banks of that river late last season,\rdblquote  said Cynric. \ldblquote If we hope to drive them back this summer, we\rquote ll have to attack their territory. Last year\rquote s campaign penned them on the far side of the river, but I suppose they look to cross it again, with their reinforcements from across the Channel.\rdblquote  His face tightened as he considered this.\par
\ldblquote How long will we take to reach River Dubglas?\rdblquote  Hunter asked.\par
\ldblquote If we ride without a break to the same site as last year\rquote s battle, three days. Our scouts will ride back with word as we draw closer, though, to tell Artorius exactly where on the river to go. We might spend some time moving up and down the bank. Artorius will make his final plans according to how many of our veterans join us quickly.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You feel he may order us to wait and gather his troops before moving into battle?\rdblquote   Hunter asked.\par
\ldblquote Anything is possible. We will find out his plans when we are close enough for our scouts to bring fresh information.\rdblquote\par
Steve understood the real questions in Hunter\rquote s mind, behind his spoken words. Hunter wanted to take Steve away from the column before any battle began. Ideally,  they would find MC 6 and simply return together to their own time before the fighting started. Now Hunter could estimate that they had a minimum of three days before Artorius could reach the Saxons.\par
\par
14\par
\par
Wayne and Jane rode the mule. He held the reins while Jane sat behind him with her arms around his waist. Even at a walk, the mule\rquote s long legs moved faster than a human\rquote s legs would walk.\par
Ishihara had to stride quickly to keep up. He moved at a pace that no human could maintain for long, but of course had no trouble with it himself. Because the road had been churned to a deep muddy soup by the horses ahead, Wayne rode through the long grass by the side of the road.\par
In late morning, they caught up to the camp followers hiking after the riders.  Ishihara led Wayne on a long detour around the camp followers, far enough to avoid conversation. Then they moved back to the side of the road again.\par
At midday, Wayne stopped for a break. He and Jane ate part of their bread and mutton in silence. Then they mounted again and continued on their journey.\par
Late in the afternoon, Ishihara suddenly trotted about twenty meters ahead of the mule, then stopped. As Wayne caught up to him, Ishihara raised a hand for him to halt. Wayne saw that Ishihara was listening to something.\par
\ldblquote They have stopped to make camp,\rdblquote  Ishihara said finally. \ldblquote The noises are faint, but we will come within sight of the camp soon. We must decide how to proceed now,  before anyone in the camp sees us.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well...I don\rquote t know exactly what to do,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote What do you suggest?\rdblquote\par
Ishihara looked up the road, which still wound through rolling hills ahead. \ldblquote That long line of trees suggests a river or at least a stream that provides water for Artorius\rquote s camp. We will need water, too, so we might as well go close enough to see what the camp looks like.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yeah.  Maybe we can see MC 6 from a distance.\rdblquote  Wayne kicked the mule forward.\par
As Wayne passed, Ishihara looked behind him, at Jane. \ldblquote You are still well?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yeah,\rdblquote   Jane muttered.\par
\par
The troops halted to make camp by a small stream. Hunter saw new scouting patrols ride out, crossing the stream. He understood that by stopping with plenty of daylight left, the main column allowed the baggage train time to catch up before darkness fell.\par
The squads split up and fanned out from the road. The riders tended their horses first, unsaddling them and hobbling them to graze. Then the men were ordered to gather firewood to make separate campfires for the night.\par
\ldblquote There\rquote s dead wood among those live trees, all over the place,\rdblquote  said Steve, glancing at the trees lining the stream. \ldblquote We don\rquote t need everybody to gather it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Every man does his share,\rdblquote  growled Cynric. \ldblquote Come on, you two.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Hold it,\rdblquote  called Bedwyr, with a big grin. He walked briskly among the other men and horses toward them. \ldblquote I have business here, Cynric. How did my green friends fare on their first day of march?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Very well, thank you,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote You told me you lead a scouting patrol,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote Do you have any news? We heard a rumor about going to River Dubglas.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,  that\rquote s right,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr. \ldblquote But none of the patrols today have made contact with the Saxons. Fresh patrols rode out a few minutes ago, but we\rquote re still a long way from Linnuis.\rdblquote\par
Steve nodded.\par
\ldblquote I have a serious reason to speak with you,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr. \ldblquote Artorius is worried about having so many green recruits and so few veterans. The rest of our veterans should join us during the next day or so, but he wants to mix some quick-witted new recruits with his veterans to give them some experience. I want you two to join my patrol.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Really?\rdblquote   Steve grinned but glanced uncertainly at Hunter. \ldblquote That sounds exciting.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It can be,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr.\par
Hunter considered the offer quickly. On the face of it, scouting could be more dangerous to Steve than riding in the body of the army, since the patrols would make the first contact with the enemy. They could even be ambushed. However,  Hunter also had to prepare for them both to leave the area before any fighting began, ideally without witnesses. Slipping away from the rest of the patrol momentarily would be much easier than leaving the main column. He knew that scouts occasionally were killed and never accounted for on campaigns of this sort, so no one would question their disappearance. In fact, when he and Steve had to return for Jane, they might claim simply to have lost their way or to have been caught behind the enemy lines for a short time.\par
\ldblquote We accept,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote Ah!  I\rquote m glad. We\rquote ll do well together. Get your gear and your horses.\rdblquote\par
Cynric sighed loudly. \ldblquote All right.\rdblquote  He jerked a thumb toward Hunter. \ldblquote His weight is rough on a horse, but he\rquote s good with both his horse and his weapons.\rdblquote  He glanced at Steve and Hunter. \ldblquote Watch yourselves out front, there.\rdblquote  Then he trudged after the men going to gather firewood.\par
Steve looked toward the rear, where the baggage train had rolled into view down the muddy road. \ldblquote Bedwyr, would you help us with a personal matter? After we move our horses and belongings up to join your patrol?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What is it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We,  uh, have to confront a man in the baggage train. We don\rquote t want him to get away,  and the wagonmaster stopped us from seeing him before we left.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The same man you were looking for in the palace, when we met?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Maybe.  He...owes us a little money.\rdblquote  Steve grinned. \ldblquote We want it back.\rdblquote\par
Bedwyr laughed. \ldblquote You told me before he did not owe you any money.\rdblquote\par
Steve had forgotten what he had told Bedwyr before, and now had to explain the discrepancy. \ldblquote Well, you and I had just met. I, uh...\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You wanted to be careful until you learned what kind of friend I might be.\rdblquote  Bedwyr chuckled. \ldblquote Of course I understand. And on this matter of finding your friend, I will be glad to help you. But what do you want me for?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Maybe you will know some of the men. We won\rquote t be total strangers.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,  that would be good. I will go with you. And I know Gaius, the wagonmaster. But first they will have to catch up and break formation to make camp.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I promise we will commit no violence,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote We only wish to speak to him, preferably alone. We need just a moment.\rdblquote\par
By the time Hunter and Steve led their mounts to the place where Bedwyr\rquote s patrol had stopped, the baggage train had halted behind the main column. Bedwyr introduced Hunter and Steve to their new companions in the patrol. Then they walked back through the camp to the baggage train..\par
The men in the wagon crews jumped off to unload. Hunter spotted MC 6 just as he hopped from the wagon; when he reached the ground, he was hidden by other wagons. Teamsters began unhitching the teams.\par
\ldblquote I saw him for a moment.\rdblquote  Hunter pointed in the direction of MC 6.\par
\ldblquote Good,\rdblquote   said Steve.\par
Bedwyr moved up to lead the way.\par
\ldblquote Hey,  you there! Halt.\rdblquote  Gaius blocked Bedwyr\rquote s path. \ldblquote What do you want here, Bedwyr?  Shouldn\rquote t you be out looking for Saxons?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Easy,  Gaius.\rdblquote  Bedwyr smiled pleasantly. \ldblquote My friends and I have business with one of your men. It won\rquote t take long.\rdblquote  He started to Walk around the other man.\par
Gaius stepped sideways to block his way. \ldblquote I remember them from this morning. Get back to your places, all of you. We have work to do.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We have no wish to disturb anyone,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote Our business will take only a moment.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not while we\rquote re making camp, it won\rquote t.\rdblquote  Gaius glanced west, up at the sun. \ldblquote We barely have the daylight we need now. Go on!\rdblquote\par
Some other men had come up behind Gaius.\par
\ldblquote Easy,  friend,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr, still smiling. \ldblquote No one will interfere with your work. We only want a quick word with one man.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Get out!\rdblquote  Gaius shouted, pointing back the way they had come.\par
Hunter considered forcing his way past the wagonmaster and taking MC 6 by brute strength. Bedwyr might not join him, but Steve would. However, even if they were successful, that move would force Hunter to flee back with Steve and MC 6 to their own time in front of many witnesses, risking a significant change in the tales they would tell. Obviously, Steve and the men of this time might be unnecessarily injured in the altercation. In addition, Hunter had to consider that the sheer number of men in front of him might prevent him from pushing his way through, since he would not display more than human strength to them. He might simply create bad feeling without apprehending MC 6. Hunter decided to postpone their approach to MC 6 again.\par
\ldblquote Never mind, Bedwyr,\rdblquote  Hunter said quietly. He turned, followed by Steve and Bedwyr.\par
\ldblquote He\rquote s really a good man,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr, as they walked. \ldblquote Too many of the warriors treat his men arrogantly, as though being a fighter is more important. Gaius knows this isn\rquote t true and is very protective of them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I have to admit, I kind of like him,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote He\rquote s direct and businesslike.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Perhaps we can approach our friend again later,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote When the wagon crews have finished their work. Bedwyr, what do you think?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not tonight. Gaius doesn\rquote t like being pushed. Maybe I can think of a favor to do for him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What kind of favor?\rdblquote  Steve asked.\par
\ldblquote Well,  if we chanced across a nice deer, for instance, on our patrol tomorrow, or a few good game birds, we might share our luck with him. In turn, he would share it with his men, and owe us a favor in return.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I understand,\rdblquote  said\rdblquote  Hunter.\par
\ldblquote For now, let\rquote s get back up to the patrol,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr. \ldblquote I\rquote m ready for dinner.\rdblquote\par
\par
Jane stood next to the mule in a small clump of trees. Wayne, on the ground next to her, held its reins. with Ishihara, they watched the wagons of the baggage train from a distance. They could see Hunter\rquote s head and shoulders over a crowd of men in front of the wagons;\par
\ldblquote I can\rquote t hear them,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote What are they saying to each other?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Hunter and Steve claim they want to get some money from a man working in the baggage train,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote I surmise that this is MC 6. They have a local man named Bedwyr helping them.\rdblquote\par
Jane kept looking, but she could still only see Hunter\rquote s head and shoulders from this distance. Steve remained lost in the crowd. Like Wayne, she could not make out the conversation, though she heard a low rumble of voices.\par
\ldblquote You mean they\rquote re about to get him already?\rdblquote  Wayne\rquote s shoulders sagged.\par
\ldblquote No.  The wagonmaster, Gaius, has refused to let them pass. He does not want anyone interfering with his wagon crews while they are making camp.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Hunter\rquote s turning around,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote Is he just giving up?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote For the moment, he has agreed to leave. However, this provides us with information.  I have not spotted MC 6 yet, but now we know where to look for him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Let\rquote s go,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote Quick, before Hunter sneaks back somehow. He won\rquote t give up for long. Maybe we can just run in and get MC 6 right away.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I do not recommend it,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote In fact, I strongly suggest that we do nothing at the moment.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why?\rdblquote   Wayne demanded. \ldblquote We know where he is, and he\rquote s not very far away.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Gaius was adamant about not allowing anyone to disturb his crews. Some of his men stood behind him, and from their posture I believe they were ready to fight if necessary. They are likely to remain angry.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh.\rdblquote   Wayne sighed, still looking at the men around the wagons. \ldblquote I see what you mean.  I hate waiting, but if we can\rquote t get to him anyway, then we should lie low. We don\rquote t want to alert Hunter or MC 6 to our presence.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote In the meantime, we should find a comfortable place under the trees to spend the night.\rdblquote  Ishihara turned and looked down the road the way they had come. \ldblquote The camp followers have not caught up yet, but they will. When they are nearby, we must avoid direct contact with them, but their campfires will camouflage our own. Hunter and Steve will have no reason to think we are here.\rdblquote\par
Jane said nothing. However, the renewed possibility of escaping Wayne and Ishihara gave her a surge of excitement. Later tonight, she would try to get away. For now, lying low suited her just fine.\par
\par
15\par
\par
Harriet spent the evening at Gwenhyvaer\rquote s side. After dinner, they joined the other women by a large fireplace in the main hall drinking mead. The palace seemed empty without the men who had gone with Artorius. Only the boys and the elderly men remained. In the tor around them, a skeletal garrison still guarded the walls, but their real protector had ridden out to meet the enemy in his own land.\par
The other women talked about the Saxons and how long the men would be gone. Harriet noticed that none talked about which ones would not come home. As the fire burned down, the discussion grew quieter, however. Then, one by one, the other women retired for the night to be alone with their thoughts.\par
\ldblquote Are you sleepy?\rdblquote  Harriet asked, when she and Gwenhyvaer were left alone in front of the fire.\par
\ldblquote A little.\rdblquote  Gwenhyvaer shrugged. \ldblquote But I\rquote m wide awake, too.\rdblquote  She gazed into the dwindling flames.\par
\ldblquote Shall I put more wood on the fire?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No.\rdblquote\par
Harriet waited in silence, watching her.\par
\ldblquote If Artorius doesn\rquote t come back, I will be nobody,\rdblquote  said Gwenhyvaer quietly.\par
Harriet wanted to reassure her, to tell her that Artorius would return, but did not dare. A single comforting word might pass as normal, but if Harriet remained in this time for the rest of her life, she would have to learn to keep quiet. The alternative could be gaining, over time, a reputation for knowing the future.\par
In a superstitious society, knowing the future could make her either a respected wise woman or an evil sorceress, but she would have no control over which one.  She would five most comfortably by blending into society, not by standing out.  Besides, despite her disbelief in chaos theory, she knew that she really could change the future if she eventually altered the behavior of enough important people.\par
\ldblquote If Artorius falls, we are all in trouble,\rdblquote  Harriet said carefully. \ldblquote But he knows his enemy.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,  that\rquote s true.\rdblquote  Gwenhyvaer brightened a little. \ldblquote He\rquote s been fighting the Saxons for a long time.\rdblquote\par
Harriet thought again of how young Gwenhyvaer seemed. She reminded herself once more that Gwenhyvaer was a grown woman in this society and almost past her prime marriage years. For that reason, Gwenhyvaer had good reason to be concerned about her future with Artorius.\par
A woman\rquote s position in this society depended largely on the prestige of her father and her husband. Even worse, the status of men in this time was fluid and uncertain, leaving any particular woman with few good choices. The wealth and social strata of Roman society were gone and the social system of medieval England lay many centuries in the future. Gwenhyvaer knew that if she did not marry well before long, she might have to choose between spending her life as a glorified servant in the palace or marrying a man who rode with Artorius in summer and tended sheep the rest of the year.\par
\ldblquote Did your husband ever fight in a war before?\rdblquote  Gwenhyvaer asked. \ldblquote Did you worry about him all the time?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He never fought in a war,\rdblquote  said Harriet.\par
\ldblquote Really?  He\rquote s so big. He would make a good warrior. Why didn\rquote t he?\rdblquote .\par
Harriet suppressed a smile, thinking of the First Law. She also realized she would have to embellish the story of her life with Hunter a little in order to answer.  \ldblquote When the Saxons drove us out of Linnuis, on the coast, we had no army left in the area to join. And if he had gone to find Artorius farther inland, I would have been abandoned.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I see,\rdblquote  said Gwenhyvaer. \ldblquote That\rquote s when he took you with him to Gaul.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s right.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I hope I get married soon.\rdblquote  Gwenhyvaer turned from the fire to Harriet. \ldblquote Did you get married young?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well...yes.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How old are you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m forty.\rdblquote\par
Gwenhyvaer straightened in surprise, her eyes wide. \ldblquote What? Are you joking with me?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No.  I\rquote m not joking.\rdblquote  Harriet smiled at her surprise, knowing that the average life expectancy here was in the early forties, due to the stresses of physical labor, limited diet, and the lack of medical knowledge and dental care. \ldblquote I\rquote m forty years old.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But...you have all your teeth.\rdblquote  Gwenhyvaer looked at her mouth again, making sure.\par
Harriet laughed lightly. \ldblquote Yes, I do.\rdblquote  She shrugged. \ldblquote I\rquote ve been fortunate.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But you just don\rquote t look that old. I thought you were...oh, I don\rquote t know.\rdblquote   Gwenhyvaer stared at her face.\par
Harriet knew that a few individuals lived into their sixties and seventies even in this century, but Gwenhyvaer had good reason to be shocked. Most of the women Harriet\rquote s age in this time did look much older. The women she resembled most were closer to thirty.\par
\ldblquote Can you...I mean, when I get older, can you help me look that way?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t have any secrets. If I did, I would be glad to share them. But I don\rquote t.\rdblquote\par
Gwenhyvaer nodded slowly and turned to gaze into the fire again.\par
\par
Long after dark, Jane lay under the stars wrapped up in her blanket. She knew from Wayne\rquote s slow, rhythmic breathing that he had fallen asleep. Of course, Ishihara remained alert. She hoped that because she had made no move to escape, he had not focused his attention on her.\par
She knew that if she prepared herself to make a move, perhaps by taking several deep breaths and shifting her position, Ishihara would hear the difference.  That would cost her any element of surprise. Her best chance was to move impulsively, so she did.\par
All at once, she flung off the blankets, scrambled up, and ran in the faint moonlight toward the camp.\par
\ldblquote Hunter!\rquote   She screamed as loud as she could. \ldblquote It\rquote s Jane! Hunter! Here!\rdblquote\par
Footsteps,  certainly Ishihara\rquote s, sounded behind her, gaining fast.\par
\ldblquote Hunter!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Hey!  Get her!\rdblquote  Wayne yelled sleepily.\par
Before she could shout again, she stumbled on the uneven sod, losing speed. Ishihara\rquote s footsteps come right up behind her and she felt a firm hand grasp her arm.\par
Ahead of her in the camp, startled voices spoke in puzzled tones, probably sentries.\par
In another moment, Ishihara slipped one arm around her waist and lifted her off the ground. He moved his other hand from her arm to cover her mouth with his hand. Jane squirmed, trying to shout for Hunter again.\par
\ldblquote I know I am not harming you,\rdblquote  Ishihara said quietly. \ldblquote I can feel on my hand that you are breathing sufficiently through your nose.\rdblquote\par
Jane decided to save her strength and quit fighting. Hunter should have heard her.  Now she could only wait.\par
\par
Hunter was lying on the ground pretending to sleep when he heard Jane\rquote s first shout.  He recognized her voice even before she identified herself. Instantly he rose and ran through the camp toward the sound, leaving Steve asleep; he did not want to endanger Steve by having him follow. By altering his vision to maximum light receptivity, he saw clearly enough in the moonlight to avoid stumbling over sleeping men or gear.\par
\ldblquote You there! Stop!\rdblquote  A man standing on the edge of the camp to Hunter\rquote s left shouted,  holding up a spear. \ldblquote Stop, I say! Now!\rdblquote\par
Hunter angled his run away from the man, hoping to elude him. However, the man who had shouted began running toward him, as did other sentries on Hunter\rquote s right. He changed his angle again, still running toward Jane\rquote s voice. Having the sentries follow him might actually help him rescue her.\par
\ldblquote Halt!  What\rquote s wrong with you? Stop!\rdblquote\par
Up ahead, Hunter heard hoofbeats canter away. Even at his best robotic running speed, he doubted he could catch the mount. Still, he would normally have tracked the animal through the darkness on the assumption that it carried Jane and probably Wayne.\par
However,  he could not reveal his true running ability to the sentries chasing him. For now, he would have to give up the chase. He came to a halt and turned to face them.\par
The first sentry ran up to him holding his spear forward. \ldblquote When I order you to halt, you halt! What is your business out here?\rdblquote\par
Five other sentries jogged up behind him, three from one side and two from another.  They surrounded Hunter. No one else spoke.\par
\ldblquote You must have heard the woman shouting,\rdblquote  Hunter said calmly. \ldblquote I came to help.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You know her?\rdblquote\par
Hunter decided that admitting he knew Jane could endanger her. He did not want the sentries to pay any independent attention to her if they came across her later.  \ldblquote No. I just came to help.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote She\rquote s just some camp follower quarreling with a scavenger,\rdblquote  said the sentry. \ldblquote That\rquote s their own business, not ours. Stay out of it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He\rquote s been a troublemaker all day,\rdblquote  growled another man. \ldblquote I remember him by his height. He almost started a brawl by the wagons this afternoon.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Is he the one? I heard about that,\rdblquote  said the first sentry. He lowered his spear point toward Hunter\rquote s abdomen, but did not advance. \ldblquote The Saxons will give you all the fight you want. We have no rule against chasing a camp follower in the middle of the night, but you\rquote ll need your rest. Go on back to your squad and I\rquote ll forget about it.\rdblquote\par
Hunter knew that Ishihara still had to be protecting Jane; in fact, he had probably forced her to stop yelling for help. That took away the immediate First Law imperative for Hunter. He nodded to the sentry and began walking through the moonlight back into the camp with the sentries.\par
The incident had not been a waste. Now he knew that Jane, with Ishihara and presumably Wayne, was with the army. He would have other chances to reach her.\par
\par
Ishihara jogged through the moonlight away from the camp, carrying Jane by the waist under one arm. He still held one hand over her mouth to stop her from shouting again. Next to him, Wayne rode the mule at a canter.\par
By the time Ishihara had run back to their campsite carrying Jane, Wayne had already slipped the bridle on the mule and rolled up the blankets he and Jane used. As soon as he had seen Ishihara coming back with Jane, he had mounted up and kicked the mule into a canter, letting Ishihara take the lead.\par
Now Ishihara, with his hearing turned up to maximum, could hear Hunter giving explanations to the sentries behind them. Because their voices were stationary,  Ishihara knew the pursuit had ended for now. Still, he continued to jog parallel to the river, staying just far enough from the trees for Wayne to ride safely without hitting branches in the darkness.\par
When Ishihara heard one of the sentries discount Jane\rquote s call for help as a dispute among camp followers, he knew the sentries were not concerned. After a while,  he stopped, signaling for Wayne to rein in. At this distance, he would hear Hunter\rquote s footsteps approaching alone if Hunter made another attempt to come close tonight.\par
Ishihara set Jane on her feet and released her. \ldblquote Are you well?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not as well as I could be,\rdblquote  she said angrily. \ldblquote I\rquote m real tired of all this. The idea that you aren\rquote t harming me is insane.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I disagree,\rdblquote  said Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote We have to gag her,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote Or else she\rquote ll yell again and give away our position.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The First Law will not allow that,\rdblquote  Jane declared firmly. \ldblquote It will hurt me and interfere with my breathing. If you don\rquote t tie my hands, I\rquote ll pull it off. And if you tie me, I might suffocate.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote She\rquote s playing games with you,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote A careful gag won\rquote t kill her.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I agree with her,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote I cannot allow her to be gagged and tied. We will have to stay far enough from the column so that I can clearly hear anyone or two sets of footsteps or hoofbeats approaching us long before they come close. If necessary, we will maintain enough distance so that even Hunter cannot hear her shout again.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We\rquote ll be too far to get MC 6, in that case,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote So what\rquote s the point of following him at all? Are you telling me just to give up?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We are far enough for both of you to get some rest,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote During the night, I will remain alert for further pursuit and I will consider our options.\rdblquote\par
\par
Steve felt himself shaken awake early in the morning. When he looked up, Bedwyr grinned and handed him a chunk of cold, cooked mutton and a piece of bread. The earliest light of dawn broke as a yellow haze through the gray clouds, angling among the trees along the river.\par
\ldblquote It has to last you all day,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr. \ldblquote Eat it at your leisure, but we won\rquote t have any more till we return to the new camp tonight.\rdblquote  He also gave Steve a small water skin on a leather strap.\par
While the rest of the camp rose slowly and built up their campfires, Bedwyr roused his scouting patrol to eat their cold breakfast while saddling and bridling their horses and mounting. Only a few minutes after waking, Steve found himself riding out with Hunter, following the other ten men in the patrol.\par
When everyone else was out of hearing, Hunter quietly told Steve that he had heard Jane call him for help the night before. Hunter related how the sentries had stopped him. However, they now knew that Wayne, Jane, and Ishihara had followed the column somehow.\par
A light drizzle fell as the patrol moved away from the camp. First they rode along the near side of the river, walking their horses through the trees, going upstream. Then Bedwyr turned and led them across the river. As they rode through the ford, the horses walked into water up to the level of their underbellies. The river was narrow here, though, and in a moment all the riders had crossed.\par
When they had left the trees on the far side of the river, Steve saw Bedwyr rein in and glance over his shoulder to make sure all his riders had crossed safely.  Then the scouts looked in all directions, across more grassy, rolling hills. In the distance to the east, Steve could see the edge of a forest. To his right,  far downstream, he saw another patrol also cross the river and leave the trees.  That patrol angled away from them, to the southeast.\par
Bedwyr suddenly kicked his mount into a canter and rode off toward the distant forest.  The rest of the patrol followed. Steve continued to ride in the rear, next to Hunter, squinting in the drizzle.\par
\par
16\par
\par
After about half a kilometer, Bedwyr slowed to a walk again. He waved for the patrol to keep moving in the same direction, but stopped and waited for Steve and Hunter to come up. Then, with a big grin, he fell into step next to them.\par
\ldblquote I love this open country,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr. \ldblquote We can spot and ride down any Saxon who hikes out of the forest. As soon as we came across the river, we could see at a glance that this area\rquote s clear-not that I thought they\rquote ve had time to advance this far.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The forest up ahead could be dangerous to us, then?\rdblquote  Hunter asked.\par
\ldblquote We\rquote ll be careful, all right, when we get there. Even a foul Saxon can hide among the trees or climb up into the branches. I still say we\rquote re too far from their territory to meet them yet, but we won\rquote t take chances when we reach any forest.\rdblquote  Bedwyr shrugged. \ldblquote Last year, we didn\rquote t see any Saxons for several more days after we passed through here.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You rode this route last summer?\rdblquote  Steve asked. \ldblquote We\rquote re on the same campaign allover again?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh,  yes.\rdblquote  Bedwyr frowned, eyeing the cloudy sky above them. \ldblquote More Saxons sail across the Channel every year. We don\rquote t have similar numbers coming to join us.  Every year, we hope to kill enough to drive them back toward the sea again, but the work feels much the same, year after year,\rdblquote\par
Steve nodded.\par
\ldblquote Last year, we found the Saxons waiting for us on the opposite bank of the River Dubglas. Artorius didn\rquote t want to attack against their strength across the water, where our horses would lose the force of their charge in walking or swimming. The Saxons were relying on that, of course; they carry eight foot lances to unhorse us, and in the water they have a better chance. So we moved up and down the bank to get around them, but the Saxons kept stretching their line to block us.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What did you do?\rdblquote  Hunter asked.\par
\ldblquote When we had stretched their line thin enough, we took advantage of our mobility.  Artorius led one end of our line on a fast ride doubling back to the center and charged across the river anyway. They didn\rquote t have time to mass their men again to meet us, since they\rquote re all on foot.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And the charge worked?\rdblquote  Steve asked.\par
\ldblquote Yes.  Even through the water. Their line was so thin that they broke easily. After that, the rest of the Saxon line panicked.\rdblquote  Bedwyr grinned. \ldblquote It was easy slaughter after that, I promise you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What did you do during the rest of the summer?\rdblquote  Hunter asked. \ldblquote That battle itself must not have taken long. Did you fight more than one?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We fought only one pitched battle against their full numbers,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr. \ldblquote It occurred late in the season. You see, we spent the early part of the summer jockeying for position.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Even with your advantage in mobility?\rdblquote  Hunter asked. \ldblquote Artorius could ride in circles around any Saxon army and attack at any time.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The Saxons come on like waves of the sea,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr. \ldblquote Yes, we can ride around them, but we must be careful about entering battle. Their numbers are so much greater that Artorius dares not fight them recklessly.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote So what did you do?\rdblquote  Steve asked. \ldblquote Just wait until the right time?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We did plenty of waiting, all right, but we didn\rquote t just ride around and look at the landscape, either. Our strategy was to attack the Saxons in small groups.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What do you mean?\rdblquote  Hunter asked. \ldblquote How can you separate waves of the sea?\rdblquote\par
Bedwyr laughed. \ldblquote They keep coming, but they don\rquote t live together in cities the way Romans do. They live in small villages.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But once you attacked one, didn\rquote t they rally their army together?\rdblquote  Steve asked.\par
\ldblquote That was their goal,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr. \ldblquote But we stayed in the saddle and rode hard to confuse them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What do you mean?\rdblquote  Steve grinned wryly. \ldblquote I hope you don\rquote t mind all these questions,  but it\rquote s new to us.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr. \ldblquote That\rquote s why Artorius wants the green riders mixing with veterans.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You said you confused them?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh,  yes,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr. \ldblquote Well, sometimes we drew out Saxon bands from their homes and then rode around them to raid and bum down their villages. We attacked small bands before they could join each other, to fight them without their advantage of numbers. Our patrols let themselves be seen in different places to give the impression that our main column could be coming from any direction.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I understand,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote We spent all summer maneuvering to avoid fighting a massed Saxon horde, but they finally formed and marched on us. I believe they grouped early this year because of it. Now we\rquote ll have to meet them in pitched battle without whittling down their numbers slowly first.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote This campaign could be decided early in the season, then,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s possible,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr. \ldblquote But first we\rquote ll just have to make sure this route is clear for the main column.\rdblquote  He steered his mount out to one side and, with a shout, moved into a canter again.\par
The rest of the patrol, caught off-guard, hurried after him on their way to the forest ahead.\par
Bedwyr drew up about twenty meters from the edge of the forest, studying the trees and sky just above it. The rest of the patrol gathered around him. Then the veterans fanned out and rode slowly among the trunks. Steve and Hunter followed Bedwyr.\par
\ldblquote No birds have been disturbed,\rdblquote  Steve quietly.\par
\ldblquote I hear no signs of humans in these trees,\rdblquote  Hunter whispered, leaning close to Steve. \ldblquote Of course, I cannot reveal that to them, but you may know you are in no danger from Saxons right here.\rdblquote\par
Steve grinned.\par
Bedwyr led the patrol cautiously through the forest. When the patrol became convinced that no Saxons were there to ambush them, they looked carefully for tracks or firepits that would indicate a recent presence. No one found any sign of them,  either, but the patrol did not relax.\par
As the day advanced, the riders ate from their pieces of mutton and bread. The patrol could not trot or canter through the dense forest, so their progress slowed for the rest of the morning. Shortly after midday, Bedwyr turned his mount to face Steve and Hunter.\par
\ldblquote Can you find your way back to the main column?\rdblquote  Bedwyr asked.\par
\ldblquote I suppose,\rdblquote  Steve said in surprise. \ldblquote You want us to go back?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Have we made a mistake of some sort?\rdblquote  Hunter asked. \ldblquote We must know.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No,  nothing like that.\rdblquote  Bedwyr laughed. \ldblquote You aren\rquote t being punished. But it\rquote s time to send word back to Artorius that the way is clear this far. Other advance patrols will report, too, and he will decide exactly which way to go. But the column cannot come much farther than this before it will be time to make camp again.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It seems early to go back,\rdblquote  said Steve, glancing up at the sun. \ldblquote Only half the day is gone.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote By the time you reach him, and the column advances to this spot, the sun will be low enough,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr. \ldblquote I want to see how you two fare on an errand alone.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We will do it, of course,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote We will find the main column.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good!  We\rquote ll patrol a short distance from here for most of the afternoon. If Artorius decides to lead the column another way, then we\rquote ll find the rest of you later.\rdblquote   Bedwyr reined his horse around and led his other men forward.\par
\ldblquote This task will be simple enough,\rdblquote  Hunter said quietly, turning his own mount. \ldblquote We will follow our own tracks back. At some point, I should be able to hear the hoofbeats in the distance.\rdblquote\par
Steve grinned. \ldblquote This is a job I could probably do without you, Hunter. But I\rquote m glad I don\rquote t have to.\rdblquote\par
\par
Jane dozed fitfully during the remainder of the night and woke up tired. She had hoped that Hunter would swoop in during the night and rescue her like one of the knights out of the Arthurian legend that would grow out of all this in years to come. Since he had not, she felt discouraged and wondered why he had not responded to her shouting.\par
Wayne and Jane ate a cold breakfast of bread and mutton, the same as dinner the evening before. Very little remained. Ishihara built a small fire and boiled water from the river in it before allowing them to drink it. Afterward, Wayne and Jane mounted the mule and Ishihara jogged with them.\par
Though Wayne and Ishihara had not discussed any detailed plans in her hearing, Jane understood that they had certain limitations. They would either have to make an aggressive move to reach MC 6 this evening, or else they would have to get more food. Ishihara would not allow either human to go hungry and she doubted he would risk trying to get food from the column itself. Because they did not have the equipment necessary to hunt or fish, they would either have to turn back or else abandon Emrys\rquote s mule and jump through time and space with or without MC 6.  Jane hoped she could get Hunter\rquote s attention before Ishihara took one of those choices.\par
The day passed uneventfully. As before, the riders outpaced the baggage train.  Ishihara kept the end of the baggage train within his own sight or hearing, but avoided drawing too close. He also stayed clear of the camp followers.\par
Once the riders had left the baggage train behind, Wayne turned to Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote Hunter must have ridden on ahead by now. If MC 6 is in the baggage train, then Hunter can\rquote t get him. We might be able to get MC 6 on the march.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I do not like our chances,\rdblquote  said Ishihara, still jogging next to the mule. \ldblquote I dare not take Jane too close to the camp followers or near the men in the baggage train. Also, I cannot allow you to approach them alone. The wagon crews will consider all of us simply camp followers and may be hostile. They will probably consider us potential thieves.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then you think of something,\rdblquote  Wayne growled angrily. \ldblquote This project has to work somehow. And we haven\rquote t had many chances to get MC 6 while Hunter is too far away to interfere. Can\rquote t we take advantage of this somehow?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The only arrangement I can accept is one that keeps you and Jane away from the camp. If I approach MC 6 without you, I will have the force of the Second Law to order him to come with me as long as he believes I am human. I can tell him to follow me unless he detects that I am a robot.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If he turns up his hearing and actually listens, he\rquote ll hear that you don\rquote t have a human heartbeat,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote If he studies your skin under magnification, he might see your microscopic solar cells. But all that depends on whether or not he bothers. Since he isn\rquote t expecting a robot to approach him in this time period, he may not have his sensitivity turned up to the point where he\rquote ll notice.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote In any case, I suggest we wait until after the baggage train stops to make camp before we execute our attempt.\rdblquote\par
Wayne sighed. \ldblquote Yeah, all right.\rdblquote\par
Jane decided not to say anything. She wanted to think of as many objections as she could to pressure Ishihara with the Laws of Robotics. Instead of talking spontaneously, she would think up some arguments now and present them when Ishihara was about to go after MC 6.\par
Late in the afternoon, Jane could see men riding toward the column from different directions, sometimes along small paths or intersecting roads and sometimes overland. Some rode singly or in small groups; others arrived in large troops,  lined up in a military column themselves. The new arrivals moved onto the road ahead of the baggage train.\par
The baggage train finally reached the spot where the rest of the column had stopped to make camp, in a forest just past a wide stretch of open country. Other troops whom Jane had not seen had also arrived at this rendezvous point, making the camp much larger than it had been the night before. Ishihara led Wayne into the forest and stopped where they could see the baggage train through the trees.\par
\ldblquote Have you seen Hunter?\rdblquote  Wayne asked quietly.\par
\ldblquote Not yet. The visibility is poor, of course, here in the forest.\rdblquote  Ishihara helped Jane down.\par
Wayne dismounted. \ldblquote That\rquote s good. Hunter will have trouble seeing us, too.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That is true,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote We must decide exactly what our move will be.\rdblquote\par
Jane knew that the men in the baggage train could hear her clearly enough if she shouted for help again. However, she had no way of knowing where Hunter was, or if he could hear her. He might be so far up the column that her voice would be drowned out by the sounds of men setting up the camp, yelling orders, and by the hoofbeats of hundreds of horses hobbled for the night. Hunter\rquote s failure to respond last night worried her. She decided not to anger Wayne any further by another shout unless she really had reason to think Hunter could help.\par
\par
17\par
\par
\ldblquote All right, Ishihara,\rdblquote  Wayne said firmly. \ldblquote The chance we\rquote ve waited for is coming up. No more delays. We have to find a way to get MC 6 now.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then what will we do with him?\rdblquote  Ishihara asked. \ldblquote We must plan our approach based on our escape.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We\rquote ll jump a safe distance away-maybe back to the hills near Emrys\rquote s hut, early tomorrow morning. I can open up MC 6 and finally start my investigation into what went wrong. As we\rquote ve discussed during past missions, I can\rquote t go back to Mojave Center until I have information that will work to my advantage with the Oversight Committee.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I understand. We will simply have to apologize to Emrys for losing the mule.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yeah.  But when we talked about what to do before, you said you could approach MC 6 alone. Go ahead and see if you can find him. We\rquote ll wait right here.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Don\rquote t leave us,\rdblquote  Jane said quickly.\par
\ldblquote Shut up,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote She\rquote s just trying to interfere with your thinking, Ishihara.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The camp followers are coming up behind the baggage train again,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote If you can\rquote t take us to the baggage train, you can\rquote t risk leaving us here. If those scavengers come toward us, Wayne can\rquote t protect us.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Nonsense,\rdblquote   said Wayne. \ldblquote Why would they bother us? We don\rquote t have anything of value. Go on,  Ishihara.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We have the mule,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote They could ride it or eat it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote She has a point,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote In addition, she may escape from you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not if you\rquote ll tie her. You refused before. How about just tying her to a tree trunk for a few minutes?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I cannot. The First Law-\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right, all right. I know what it says.\rdblquote  Wayne paced angrily among the trees. \ldblquote Then all three of us can go look for him. You can protect us.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Among all those men? Even a robot could be overwhelmed,\rdblquote  said Jane.\par
\ldblquote That is true,\rdblquote  said Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote Then you stay here with her,\rdblquote  said Wayne impatiently. \ldblquote I can go find MC 6 on my own, without the mule. Nobody will have any reason to bother me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I cannot allow that under the First Law, either,\rdblquote  said Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote Why not?\rdblquote  Wayne demanded.\par
\ldblquote When Hunter approached the baggage train twenty-four hours ago, he was stopped by a group of men willing to commit violence. I cannot allow you to risk that.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s true,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote That\rquote s another risk.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Shut up, \ldblquote  Wayne repeated. \ldblquote Ishihara, I instruct you to suggest a plan that you can accept. At this point, even a fairly low chance of success is better than total inaction. Think of something!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Maybe there is no safe way to do this,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote Too much risk is involved,  Ishihara. How about a new approach? Talk to Hunter about working together.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Don\rquote t listen to her, Ishihara,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote I gave you an instruction.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I have a plan,\rdblquote  said Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote Yeah?  What is it?\rdblquote  Wayne folded his arms. \ldblquote This better be good.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You take Jane in a slow but deliberate ride on the mule away from the camp and the road. If any riders approach you, ride slowly away from them, but do not appear to flee or they may pursue you to find out why, You can outdistance any camp followers who approach you on foot, so they probably will not try. At the slightest sign of danger to you, shout for me and ride back in my direction. I should be able to reach you quickly. If no trouble develops, then keep riding away from the camp. I will catch up to you, with or without MC 6.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Exactly what are you going to do?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I will attempt to solicit MC 6\rquote s aid through a ruse. However, my use of the Second Law depends entirely on his belief that I am human. As we discussed, if he detects that I am a robot, he will not only refuse to obey, but he will flee, alerted to our pursuit.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You can\rquote t leave us like that,\rdblquote  Jane insisted. \ldblquote We\rquote ll still be in potential danger.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote This will be acceptable,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote In the event of immediate danger, I will use the belt unit to take us away from here.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You won\rquote t have time to set it,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote If we\rquote re riding away from someone and you\rquote re running to meet us, we won\rquote t have much time.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I will set it now.\rdblquote  Ishihara reached inside his tunic, opened his abdomen, and brought out the unit. He looked around in the distance, then changed the settings. \ldblquote In the event we have to use it, we will jump only a few hours into the future, after dark, to a spot half a kilometer away. That will be close enough for us to consider future moves.\rdblquote\par
Jane could not think of any more arguments. Ishihara, after all, made the final interpretation of what he could accept under the First Law. She sighed and looked at Wayne.\par
\ldblquote Mount up,\rdblquote  said Wayne.\par
\par
Ishihara waited until Wayne and Jane had ridden twenty meters away from the camp, out of the trees into open country. Because Ishihara could see they were alone there,  he felt he could leave them for a short time. He walked through the trees toward the baggage train.\par
Moving slowly, Ishihara studied the wagons as he approached them. Because Artorius had stopped to make camp in a forested area, the wagons remained lined up on the road or just off of it, where space permitted. Last night, the wagons had bunched together at the rear of the camp, and the wagon crews had mixed together freely. Now the crews were strung out along the road as they unloaded their wagons.\par
Ishihara saw that he could approach most of the wagons without attracting the attention of the wagonmaster. In fact, because of the trees, visibility was limited for everyone. That, too, would work to Ishihara\rquote s advantage.\par
He considered his story as he searched for MC 6. Finally, he saw MC 6 standing on the ground near a wagon, unharnessing a team of horses. Ishihara walked up to him.\par
\ldblquote I need help,\rdblquote  Ishihara said to MC 6 in Briton. \ldblquote Can you help me?\rdblquote\par
MC 6 turned and looked at him. He shrugged, gesturing that he could not understand. Then he turned back to the horses he was tending.\par
Ishihara looked at another man, standing in the wagon moving small kegs around. \ldblquote I need help. Can you spare this man for a moment?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Eh?  Who are you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I drove a wagon behind one of the veteran troops. We just arrived in camp.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You know this man?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well,  we teamsters should stick together. Hey, you.\rdblquote  The man waved his arms to get MC 6\rquote s attention. \ldblquote He\rquote s a real cooperative little fellow, but no one can figure out what language he understands.\rdblquote\par
MC 6 glanced up at the man in the wagon.\par
\ldblquote Go with him. Help him.\rdblquote  The man in the wagon pointed from MC 6 to Ishihara.\par
MC 6 nodded.\par
\ldblquote Thank you.\rdblquote  Ishihara nodded to MC 6 and walked away from the wagon. MC 6 walked with him.\par
Ishihara could only hope that MC 6 would not think to magnify his hearing or sight and examine Ishihara closely.\par
\par
Hunter had located Artorius at the head of his column with no trouble. Artorius had responded to Hunter\rquote s scouting report by choosing to follow Bedwyr\rquote s route for the day. Hunter and Steve rode with him at the head of the column to point out the way.\par
Late in the day, Bedwyr spotted them and led his patrol back to meet the column. He recommended a place to camp and Hunter and Steve rejoined the scouting patrol.  The day had remained uneventful for the scouts, as well as for the main column.\par
As the other riders dismounted and tended their horses, Steve spoke quietly to Hunter from the saddle.\par
\ldblquote Before we dismount, can\rquote t we do something about our mission? I enjoyed today\rquote s ride,  but we don\rquote t want to keep this up all summer.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I agree. However, we have earned some greater respect today, and we are considered more a part of the troop now. Perhaps we can approach the baggage train again and complete our task.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You told me this morning you heard Jane last night. Can we look for her somehow?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I doubt that she remains nearby. Wayne and Ishihara almost certainly have kept their distance since she revealed her presence. First I suggest we attempt to reach MC 6 again. Then we will look for a sign of Jane\rquote s presence.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right. Got any ideas about how to avoid that Gaius again?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.  In this forest, I expect the wagons will have to stop in a line alone the road.  We should ride parallel to the road on horseback, keeping our distance from the baggage train. I will look and listen for Gaius and for MC 6, as well.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Sounds good to me. Lead the way.\rdblquote\par
Hunter reined his mount around the road away from the camp, through the trees, ducking under branches. He heard the hoofbeats of Steve\rquote s mount following him. Hunter selected a route that would carry them down the line of the column, close enough for him to hear and see the men at the wagons through the trees but far enough to avoid immediate notice by the wagonmaster.\par
\par
Jane sat behind Wayne on the mule, riding at a walk away from the camp and the road.  At first, they did not bother to turn around as they wove through the trees.  They did not run across anyone else, nor did anyone behind them show any interest in where they were going.\par
After a while, Wayne turned the mule so they could look behind them. By this time,  the trees hid the camp from view, though they could hear men shouting orders and horses walking. Without a word, Wayne turned and continued riding away.\par
As they rode Jane looked back over her shoulder several times, but saw no one. If Ishihara was bringing MC 6, the two robots would have to catch up after Wayne decided to stop and wait. She decided not to do anything until she learned whether or not Ishihara succeeded.\par
Wayne,  following Ishihara\rquote s plan, kept the mule moving through the forest. He glanced back over his shoulder every so often, but neither of them spoke. In order to avoid riding directly into tree branches, Wayne had to face forward most of the time.\par
Jane realized that she had an advantage in riding behind him; she could turn her head and look back without Wayne knowing. The motion of Wayne\rquote s shoulders when he turned told her when he was looking behind them even if she had already looked back. She turned her head and continued to look back, despite the awkward angle, as they rode.\par
As the mule plodded on, Jane finally saw a motion through the trees behind them.  Ishihara was jogging after them, closely followed by MC 6. The forest was so dense here that they had come close without being seen; on the damp earth,  their footsteps had not been loud enough for her to hear.\par
If Ishihara had induced MC 6 to come with him somehow, instead of grabbing him and bringing him by force, Jane figured that MC 6 had his hearing turned on. That meant she could call to him in English. Suddenly encouraged, she looked for a soft spot on the ground among the trees.\par
Suddenly Jane slipped off the mule, pretending to lose her balance. She allowed herself to fall on the ground, where she judged she could land safely. Startled, Wayne reined in and looked back at her.\par
\ldblquote Ishihara,  help me!\rdblquote  Jane shouted. Then, as Ishihara ran toward her, she looked at the other robot. \ldblquote MC 6, run! They\rquote re going to dismantle you!\rdblquote\par
The small component robot instantly darted to one side and ran through the trees.  He took off at an angle away from both them and the column to their rear. His actions were driven by the Second Law to obey her instruction to run and by the Third Law to protect himself.\par
\ldblquote Hey!\rdblquote   Wayne shouted, finally seeing MC 6 for the first time. \ldblquote Stop! I order you! Stop,  robot!\rdblquote  He wheeled the mule around and rode after MC 6, leaning low to avoid tree branches. \ldblquote Halt! I need you under the First Law!\rdblquote\par
MC 6 did not seem to believe that. Jane did not see him come back. He might have turned off his hearing once he understood the danger present to him.\par
Jane had not been sure her ruse would work; MC 6 might have felt required by the First Law to come forward with Ishihara to help her. However, he had apparently judged that Ishihara would take care of her adequately. She had gambled on that. If she had told MC 6 that she was unharmed, Ishihara would also have been freed of the need to help her and he might have captured MC 6.\par
Instead,  Ishihara now hesitated where he stood. He was momentarily undecided between the immediate need to care for Jane and the First Law issue requiring him to capture MC 6 for Wayne\rquote s long-term welfare. Every moment helped MC 6 escape.\par
\ldblquote Help me up, Ishihara,\rdblquote  said Jane, to stall him further. She remained on the ground.\par
Ishihara hurried toward her and knelt down. \ldblquote Are you injured?\rdblquote\par
Jane decided that telling extreme lies would be a mistake; teaching him not to trust her could backfire if she was in real trouble. Stalling, on the other hand,  seemed safe enough. she said nothing. Behind Ishihara, Wayne came riding back,  scowling. MC 6 had escaped him.\par
\ldblquote Ishihara!  Go get him!\rdblquote  Wayne yelled.\par
\ldblquote Are you injured?\rdblquote  Ishihara repeated.\par
\ldblquote Not seriously. Please help me up.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Ishihara,  she\rquote s faking!\rdblquote  Wayne dismounted near them. \ldblquote Track that robot now, before he gets back to the wagons! I couldn\rquote t ride fast enough in this stupid forest to keep up, but he hasn\rquote t gone far.\rdblquote\par
Jane remained passive as Ishihara put one arm under her shoulders and raised her up.  Then he shifted his position and helped her stand. She took a deep breath and leaned on Ishihara\rquote s shoulder.\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ll take care of her!\rdblquote  Wayne yelled. \ldblquote Ishihara, go get him!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You seem unharmed,\rdblquote  Ishihara said to Jane.\par
\ldblquote Yes,  I\rquote ll be all right.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Now!\rdblquote   Wayne grabbed Ishihara\rquote s arm and pushed after MC 6. \ldblquote I\rquote ll watch her!\rdblquote\par
Ishihara finally turned and jogged in the direction MC 6 had gone.\par
Wayne watched him go.\par
\par
18\par
\par
As soon as Wayne turned away, Jane ducked under a branch and ran.\par
\ldblquote Hey!\rdblquote   Wayne yelled behind her. \ldblquote Oh, no, you don\rquote t! Come back here!\rdblquote\par
Jane darted around a sapling and bent down to avoid another low-hanging branch, but she felt Wayne grab her hair from behind. He yanked, pulling her head back. She threw her arms around the branch and hung on, but could not move her head.\par
\ldblquote Ishihara!\rdblquote   Jane yelled. Then she let out a loud, long, scream, much more exaggerated than the situation really warranted.\par
\ldblquote Shut up!\rdblquote  Wayne put his other hand over her mouth and tried to pull her away from the tree branch.\par
Jane struggled, but she was not really angry or scared. She was still deliberately provoking Wayne and forcing Ishihara to protect her instead of catching MC 6.  She bent her knees, dropping to the ground as she thrashed in his grasp. Wayne had to fall, too, in order to hang onto her.\par
Neither of them spoke. Jane let go of the branch, but tried to pull his hand away from her mouth. In a moment, she heard footsteps running toward them. Then suddenly Wayne released her. She let herself fall back onto the grass, looking up.\par
Ishihara had pulled Wayne away and now held him firmly as they both stood over her.\par
\ldblquote I told you to catch MC 6,\rdblquote  Wayne growled, but he did not sound as angry as before.\par
\ldblquote You know I cannot allow this,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote If I release you, will you remain calm?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yeah,  yeah, all right. But you\rquote ve been manipulated. She\rquote s done it to both of us.\rdblquote\par
Ishihara let go of him. \ldblquote You didn\rquote t have to grab me,\rdblquote  said Jane, remaining where she lay. \ldblquote You could have let me go.\rdblquote  That, too, was for Ishihara\rquote s benefit\par
\ldblquote Are you harmed?\rdblquote  Ishihara asked.\par
\ldblquote Not really. But I didn\rquote t like it much.\rdblquote  She looked at Wayne. \ldblquote Keep your hands to yourself from now on.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote She\rquote s fine,\rdblquote  Wayne wearily. \ldblquote And I\rquote m not going to hurt her. You still might have a chance to get MC 6, if you hurry. You can track him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No,  you can\rquote t,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote As soon as you leave again, I\rquote m running away. And Wayne will try to stop me again and we\rquote ll wind up wrestling around again. Ishihara,  you either have to stay here and protect me from Wayne or let me go.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I won\rquote t hurt her,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote I\rquote ve never wanted to hurt her. But we can\rquote t let her tell Hunter where we are-or where MC 6 has gone, either.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You can\rquote t trust him,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote You just saw him grab me and pull me down.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If you promise not to run away, I can trust him,\rdblquote  said Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote I refuse to promise,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote In fact, I promise to run away every chance I get from now on.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Ishihara,  can\rquote t you see what she\rquote s doing?\rdblquote  Wayne demanded. \ldblquote This whole argument is set up to stop you from getting MC 6, and that\rquote s all it is.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The First Law has no exceptions,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote I must make my own interpretation of priorities. Unless you decide to let Jane go find Hunter on her own, I must remain with both of you.\rdblquote\par
Wayne sighed with resignation. \ldblquote I can\rquote t do that. We might as well give up as do that.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then I suggest we move somewhat farther from the camp and make our own camp for the night,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote The sun will go down soon.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote But if you\rquote re staying here instead of chasing MC 6, make sure that she stays, too.\rdblquote\par
Jane indulged in an impish grin, relieved that she had foiled the capture of MC 6.  \ldblquote Why, of course, Wayne. Anything you want.\rdblquote\par
\par
Steve rode up and down a route roughly parallel to the road with Hunter. Neither of them spoke. Steve could hear the men and horses of the baggage train and occasionally saw them through the trees.\par
Finally Hunter reined in and turned to Steve.\par
\ldblquote I have heard and seen no sign of MC 6. While I grant that he may not be speaking,  I should be able to hear his footsteps, which are of a distinctively light weight among grown men. If he was helping others, I should hear them talk about him as they work, if they do not address him directly.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You think he figured out that we came from his time to get him?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I must consider it possible. He may have studied my skin with magnified vision while we spoke with Gaius last night. Also, he may have been approached by Wayne and Ishihara, in which case they could have revealed their purpose.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I guess if you\rquote d heard any sign of them, you would have told me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I have not. As we discussed before, I expect that after Jane shouted for my help,  Wayne and Ishihara took her a safe distance away from the column.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If they know MC 6 came with the column, they must have followed. Let\rquote s go look for tracks.\rdblquote\par
Hunter looked through the trees at the position of the sun. \ldblquote I do not estimate we have enough light to pursue any tracks for long.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Wait a minute. Didn\rquote t you say a while ago that if we couldn\rquote t find MC 6, we could look for Jane?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We have taken more time than I expected in searching for MC 6. I cannot allow you to miss dinner. Nor can we wander too far from the camp before darkness falls.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I can miss a meal if I have to. Besides, we don\rquote t have to be gone long. Let\rquote s look around.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Agreed.\rdblquote\par
Hunter rode back up the route they had taken before, but now he examined the ground.  Steve said nothing. He felt trapped by their need to perform duties in the column.\par
\ldblquote Here.\rdblquote   Hunter stopped and pointed to hoofprints, accompanied by smaller depressions in the grass and soft earth.\par
\ldblquote You found him?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I have found the tracks of one mount and the footsteps of Ishihara and another set of the right size to be MC 6.\rdblquote  Hunter looked through the trees away from the road. \ldblquote I surmise that Wayne and Jane rode double on the animal.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You mean they got him?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I see that they have him, but only since the baggage train halted. Wayne has not had time to dismantle MC 6 yet.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Let\rquote s go!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No,\rdblquote   said Hunter. \ldblquote I will go. I suggest you return to the squad and tell Bedwyr that a personal matter arose for me. Assure him that I will not need dinner and that I will return in time to do my duties tomorrow.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He\rquote ll expect you to come back in time to get a night\rquote s sleep. I can\rquote t tell him you don\rquote t need it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Listen carefully for my voice. If I call you from the camp, it will mean we are ready to leave the column permanently. Otherwise, I will simply return during the night to resume my position.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I should go with you. Maybe I can help.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We must maintain our goodwill with Bedwyr.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yeah,  all right. Good luck. Get going.\rdblquote  Steve kicked his mount and rode up the line,  hoping that Hunter would get MC 6 quickly.\par
\par
Hunter leaned low and rode at a quick walk, dodging trees. The tracks in the soft earth were clear and fresh. This was the best opportunity to get both MC 6 and Jane that he had yet seen.\par
When Hunter reached a spot where the grass and some small bushes had been crushed,  he studied the tracks and the marks carefully. He saw that MC 6 had run away from this spot alone, without reaching the area where the ground cover had been disturbed. He guessed that Jane had somehow freed MC 6, though he could not tell how.\par
Because the hoofprints and Ishihara\rquote s tracks led in a different direction from those of MC 6, Hunter had to decide which way to go.\par
Jane had apparently remained in Isihara\rquote s company, so Hunter judged that finding MC 6 was more urgent. He decided to track MC 6 as long as the waning daylight held out. As he did so, he observed that the component robot did not make any effort to hide his tracks, probably relying on speed and agility to avoid human pursuit.\par
The forest darkened quickly, however, and Hunter realized that he could not continue tracking MC 6 for long. Even if he used the maximum light receptivity of his vision, too much of the moonlight would be blocked by the canopy of leaves overhead for him to see fine details. For now, his infrared vision could still perceive the faint warm spots on the ground left by MC 6\rquote s feet, but the heat was dissipating quickly. Hunter would not catch MC 6 before it vanished.\par
He saw no point in riding on. However, before he returned to the camp, he reviewed MC 6\rquote s route in hope of finding a pattern. The component robot seemed to be moving roughly parallel to the road, going ahead of the main column in anticipation of its journey tomorrow.\par
Hunter guessed that MC 6 still hoped to prevent the violence of the coming battle, as unlikely as that seemed. Since Wayne and Ishihara had located him in the baggage train, Hunter felt certain that MC 6 would not return there. Still,  Hunter might be able to pick up his trail tomorrow.\par
He turned and rode back to the camp.\par
\par
As Steve ate bread and mutton again by the patrol\rquote s campfire, he noted that Bedwyr kept glancing into the gathering darkness. Bedwyr had not objected to Hunter pursuing a personal errand, but he seemed uncomfortable. When Hunter finally arrived, however, Bedwyr simply offered him his dinner.\par
During a walk to the latrine, Steve asked Hunter what he had found. Hunter explained and Steve resigned himself to another wait. During the evening, Steve hoped Jane would yell for help again, but if she did, even Hunter did not hear her.\par
As Steve lay rolled in his blanket near the dwindling campfire, he felt trapped again by their presence in the column. At this point, Hunter knew both Jane and MC 6 to be nearby but not actually traveling in the column. Tomorrow, Steve and Hunter would have to ride out with the patrol instead of searching for either of them; in the meantime, Ishihara would probably start tracking MC 6 in earnest.\par
Steve wondered, as he drifted off to sleep, if Hunter would consider deserting tomorrow. He would ask when he got Hunter alone. Then, tired from the long day in the saddle, he slept soundly.\par
A hand on his shoulder shook him awake.\par
Steve rolled over, blinking groggily. The night was still black. He heard other men in the squad stirring. By the faint glow of the embers nearby, he saw a man\rquote s shadow standing over him.\par
\ldblquote We must ride,\rdblquote  Bedwyr said grimly. \ldblquote Move fast.\rdblquote  He walked away and bent over someone else.\par
Steve forced himself up. He could feel that he had only slept a few hours at most.  His eyes adjusted to the faint moonlight and he saw that Hunter had already brought their horses up.\par
Sleepily Steve rose and slid his sword into his belt. He stumbled to his saddle where it lay on the ground. As he threw it on his mount he spoke quietly, his voice rough with sleep.\par
\ldblquote Have you heard what\rquote s going on?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote   said Hunter. \ldblquote More patrols rode out at sundown. They knew they would have to ride slowly in the moonlight and they expected to camp alone for the night at a forward position, then report back in the morning. Instead, before stopping to make camp, one of them stumbled across the campfires of the entire Saxon army.  The riders just got back a few minutes ago.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s right,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr, holding out more bread and cold mutton for them. \ldblquote The Saxons have already crossed the River Dubglas and marched out to meet us on our own territory this year.\rdblquote\par
Steve accepted his breakfast and slipped both pieces into his tunic. He glanced up and down the dark camp. \ldblquote No one else is up yet?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No need to disturb them,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr. \ldblquote On foot, the Saxons will need a full day\rquote s march or more to reach us. At dawn, Artorius will lead the column forward with a good night\rquote s sleep. Over four thousand of our veterans met us on this site yesterday. In daylight, the column will cover the distance in less than four hours. By midday, he will draw close enough to the Saxons to view the terrain and choose his tactics.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What is our assignment?\rdblquote  Hunter asked.\par
\ldblquote We will reach them by dawn or shortly after, riding slowly in the moonlight,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr. \ldblquote When we have seen which way they march in the morning, we will report back to Artorius so he knows where to find them.\rdblquote\par
Hunter nodded.\par
Steve swung up into his saddle. Hunter gave him his spear and shield. Within minutes,  the rest of the patrol had also mounted. Bedwyr led them out of camp at a walk,  riding single file among the other squads and the trees.\par
At first, Steve was excited by the danger of their new task. However, they all knew that the real danger lay several hours away at the earliest. Steve\rquote s enthusiasm waned quickly. Throughout the remaining hours of darkness, the patrol continued at a walk, remaining in single file so that only Bedwyr, in the lead, had to find a path.\par
When enough light appeared in the east to see into the distance, Bedwyr halted for a moment, looking around in all directions. Steve did the same, but they were still in a forest; he saw nothing but trees. Then, without a word, Bedwyr led them forward again.\par
\par
Hunter rode with his aural sensitivity at maximum. At midmorning, he heard ten pairs of human footsteps in the forest ahead before any of the humans in the patrol reacted. However, a moment later, several small birds fluttered out of the trees ahead. Bedwyr stopped immediately, raising one hand, palm open, to halt the entire patrol.\par
Hunter felt his own tension rising under the First Law. On the surface, the First Law required him to stop the violence entirely. He knew he could not, of course,  without altering history.\par
However,  Hunter would protect Steve. As a last resort, Hunter would even return them to their own time, though he hoped to avoid that. He reached inside his tunic to make sure that its folds did not interfere with his access to the belt unit hidden inside his abdomen and to set the time at which they would return if necessary. Satisfied, he listened carefully to the movement of the unseen men ahead.\par
Bedwyr hefted his spear and rode forward slowly. Now the other riders fanned out,  moving to surround the area where the birds had been disturbed. Hunter allowed the riders in front of him to open some distance before he followed them. Steve remained behind him.\par
\par
19\par
\par
The movement of horses sent another flight of birds out of the branches overhead. Hunter heard shouts from the forest in front of them;  in response, Bedwyr leaned low and kicked his mount into a trot. The other riders in the patrol did the same, whooping and yelling.\par
Hunter heard bowstrings plucked as he moved forward slowly. Steve came up alongside him, looking around uneasily. The rest of the patrol soon rode out of sight among the trees. Hunter turned to Steve.\par
\ldblquote Remain behind me. We will pretend that the trees have blocked our charge.\rdblquote  He rode forward at a trot, too, on Bedwyr\rquote s path.\par
More shouts and the sound of metal clanging reached Hunter before he could see the skirmish. He rode between two large trees and saw two strange men lying dead on the ground under the trees. Next to them, one of Bedwyr\rquote s men lay on his back with two arrows in his torso.\par
Hunter heard the sounds of men running away on foot and hoofbeats following them. No one else was in sight yet. The patrol was dispersing as the riders\rquote  pursuit took them in different directions.\par
\ldblquote You okay?\rdblquote  Steve asked. \ldblquote With people getting killed around you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote   said Hunter. \ldblquote From all our missions, I have learned to focus on my larger task in these situations. I feel great stress, however.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You want to take off?\rdblquote  Steve asked. \ldblquote We could claim to get lost.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not yet, but soon. For now, we should stay close to Bedwyr and find out what he will do next.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Lead on.\rdblquote\par
In a few minutes, Hunter and Steve caught up to Bedwyr, who had stopped at the edge of a clearing.\par
Bedwyr glanced back and grinned at them over his shoulder. \ldblquote Come up and see.\rdblquote\par
Hunter drew up next to him and looked down a long, open, grassy slope. At its base,  over a kilometer away, an army of men carrying long lances and shields, wearing short swords, marched at an angle. Apparently they hoped to circle around the slope rather than climb it. They did not march in formation, but in a long,  formless line, its far end hidden by another forest on the far side of the downward slope.\par
\ldblquote What are you smiling about?\rdblquote  Steve asked. \ldblquote They\rquote ve massed their numbers, as you said. They\rquote ll be harder to defeat this way, won\rquote t they?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Too late to worry about that,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr. \ldblquote But we found them before they found us. That\rquote s our task. Now, then. Artorius will have marched at dawn. I estimate that leaves him four hours\rquote  ride behind us. Can you find the column again, as you did yesterday?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,  I believe so,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote Good.  I will send both of you; I want you both to gain more experience. If you ride directly toward Artorius as he continues to advance, you should meet him in only two hours. Even if you have a little trouble locating him, you will not need much more time.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What is our message?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Tell Artorius where we have found the Saxons and which way they are marching. In another hour, I will send more couriers back to report whether their line of march has changed or remained the same. In the meantime, I will rally the patrol. From a safe distance, we will watch the Saxons march and fall back to remain clear of them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Very well,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote Go now. Good luck.\rdblquote\par
Hunter wheeled his mount and started back through the trees, with Steve riding beside him. When they had ridden out of Bedwyr\rquote s hearing, Hunter spoke quietly again.  \ldblquote This is excellent for our purposes. After we report to the Dux, we can ride forward again, ostensibly to rejoin Bedwyr. Instead, we can pursue our own agenda.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You mean track MC 6,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote It sounds perfect to me.\rdblquote\par
Hunter had no trouble locating Artorius, as the column followed the winding road through the forest. The ride was as uneventful as the return ride the previous day had been. Hunter and Steve fell into step with Artorius on the march and Hunter reported quickly.\par
\ldblquote Well done,\rdblquote  said Artorius. He wore the same plain steel cap and leather armor as his men. \ldblquote I expect the Saxons are marching overland to reach this very road. When they reach it, they hope it will lead straight to the heart of our land-which it would, if we were not here to meet them.\rdblquote\par
Hunter said nothing, waiting.\par
Artorius smiled grimly, looking up the road. \ldblquote Well, then. We will march forward for another hour, until the next couriers from Bedwyr arrive to tell us if I am right. In the meantime, we will watch for open country, where we can use our mobility to the greatest advantage. When we know for certain where to find the Saxons, we will prepare a welcome for them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote May we have leave to rejoin our patrol?\rdblquote  Hunter asked politely.\par
\ldblquote I have a message for you to take,\rdblquote  said Artorius. \ldblquote You will precede us only by a short distance now. By the time you find them again, they will have fallen back almost to the point where we are likely to meet. Since you can take the road for the first part of this route, you will move faster than you did riding overland through the forest. Tell Bedwyr to select a good battle site if he can. He will know what to look for-open country with high ground for us.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Very well,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote Go now.\rdblquote\par
Hunter kicked his mount, leading Steve up the road at a canter.\par
When they had left the column behind, Steve called out to Hunter. \ldblquote Does this mean we can\rquote t look for Jane or MC 6 now, after all?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote First we must give the message to Bedwyr,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote He must receive this instruction.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It doesn\rquote t sound that important. Won\rquote t Bedwyr know to look for a good battleground? He knows what he\rquote s doing.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I expect so, but I cannot take the chance,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote If we had not come back to this time, he would have sent other messengers to report to Artorius. We must assume that they would have obeyed Artorius\rquote s order to give this message to Bedwyr. I cannot risk failing the instruction.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote This is ridiculous,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote We aren\rquote t getting anywhere.\rdblquote\par
Together,  they cantered on up the road.\par
\par
Ishihara led Wayne and Jane on MC 6\rquote s trail all morning. From what Ishihara could tell by the freshness of the tracks, they were not catching up; the small component robot could move faster through the dense forest than the mule and its riders.  However, Ishihara did see that MC 6 continued to stay near the road, zigzagging through the trees near it. Finally Ishihara quit pursuing MC 6 through the trees and simply moved up along the side of the road. They moved parallel to the head of the column.\par
\ldblquote MC 6 has some purpose regarding the army,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote We do not need to follow his tracks. Sooner or later, he will return to the road somewhere in front of us.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He wants to stop the coming battle,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote As hopeless as any attempt by him will be. At some point, probably soon, I think he will approach Artorius and ask him to negotiate peace with his enemy.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I do not see how,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote A man at the wagons told me he does not seem to have learned to speak the local language. MC 6 has only communicated with gestures.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Maybe he\rquote s listening carefully and learning on the sly,\rdblquote  said Wayne.\par
Jane,  again riding behind Wayne, said nothing. She had remained silent all morning.\par
\ldblquote How do you feel?\rdblquote  Ishihara asked.\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m fine,\rdblquote  said Wayne.\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m starved,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote Since we ate the last of our food last night, you know we can\rquote t go on indefinitely. If I go much longer without food, you know I\rquote ll be harmed.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Don\rquote t pay any attention,\rdblquote  said Wayne. \ldblquote She can go without a meal or two, just like I can. Let\rquote s get MC 6 today and then worry about it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Agreed,\rdblquote   said Ishihara. He knew Jane had a point, but they were close to MC 6 and Hunter did not seem to be nearby. Ishihara expected to find MC 6 soon. For now, he led them forward, keeping track of the head of the column.\par
Early in the afternoon, a clear sound of jogging footsteps reached Ishihara from the road in front of the column. Ishihara signaled for Wayne to halt and slipped quietly through the trees so that he could see the road.\par
MC 6 stood in the center of the muddy road, holding out his arms. Several of the men riding with Artorius shouted for him to stand aside. The small robot did not move, however, and finally Artorius himself raised his hand for the column to halt, and reined in.\par
\ldblquote Who are you, fellow? Do you have news of the Saxons?\rdblquote  Artorius looked at MC 6 sternly but not angrily.\par
MC 6 responded in the same language; Ishihara guessed that he must have learned it the same way Ishihara had. \ldblquote Many people will die and many more will be injured in the coming war. Please avoid the violence. Speak with your enemies and search for agreements. You need not fight with them.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The man is crazed,\rdblquote  a man next to Artorius said quietly. \ldblquote At night, he may howl at the moon.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Perhaps he has been touched by the gods,\rdblquote  Artorius answered softly. Then he raised his voice. \ldblquote Have you any news, friend? Any word that the Saxons seek peace?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No,\rdblquote   said MC 6. \ldblquote But if you make the first offer, they might listen.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I fear not, my friend,\rdblquote  said Artorius. He sounded resigned rather than hostile.  \ldblquote If they did not wish to fight, they would not keep coming across the Channel to take what we have. And if we do not stop them here, they will kill us and our families.\rdblquote  Artorius signaled for the column to advance. \ldblquote Stand aside,  friend.\rdblquote\par
MC 6 obeyed, but he called out to Artorius again to parley with the enemy.  Artorius ignored him as he rode past. MC 6 jogged alongside, still speaking to him, but no one listened to him now. Finally, MC 6 turned and slipped into the forest again, far up the road.\par
Ishihara understood that MC 6\rquote s effort was naive and simplistic. As a robot himself,  however, he also knew that the First Law did not offer any advice on how to prevent a war. It only dictated that a robot must not allow harm to humans,  leaving the means up to the individual robot.\par
If Hunter\rquote s team and Wayne and Ishihara did not interfere with MC 6, he would eventually try again to prevent violence. If no one stopped him, he might eventually gain the trust of Artorius or a Saxon leader, and actually succeed in lessening the destruction. He just had not had time yet to work out a way to accomplish this. Ishihara saw more clearly than ever that to preserve their own time, they could not allow him to remain here.\par
A shift in the hoofbeats of the column got his attention. When he looked, he realized that orders had been given for different troops of riders to leave the road and fan out to each side. Ishihara suspected that the Saxon army had been located nearby.\par
He waved for Wayne to ride up behind him. As the riders changed formation, MC 6 would be unnoticed in the confusion. It would be a good time to catch him unaware and distracted. However, they would have to avoid the riders themselves while they tried to catch the robot.\par
\par
Steve and Hunter rode back to Bedwyr with their message. They found Bedwyr\rquote s patrol waiting for both the Saxons and Artorius at the far edge of a large, wide clearing. It did not have much of a slope in any direction, but no trees would block the charge of Artorius\rquote s riders. The road ran right through the middle of the clearing.\par
Soon after Steve and Hunter arrived, they caught the first glimpses of Artorius\rquote s riders at the edge of the clearing behind them. However, they no longer rode up the road in a column. Instead, they had already taken positions in the trees and now waited for the Saxons to advance into the clearing.\par
\ldblquote I was right,\rdblquote  Steve muttered. \ldblquote Bedwyr picked a battle site on his own. He didn\rquote t need the message we brought from Artorius.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The fact remains that we fulfilled our historical role,\rdblquote  Hunter whispered back.\par
Another rider in the patrol trotted out of the trees ahead of them and stopped next to Bedwyr. They spoke too quietly for Steve to hear. Then Bedwyr turned and waved for his patrol to pull back. To their rear, a man next to Artorius waved for them to come.\par
Steve and Hunter followed him at a trot across the clearing. The patrol halted at the trees where Artorius\rquote s riders stood waiting. From here, Steve saw that the trees were filled with riders.\par
\ldblquote Good work, Bedwyr,\rdblquote  said Artorius. \ldblquote As always. I want you and your men to ride from here as we charge.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We are honored,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr.\par
The other riders around Artorius made room for the patrol. Bedwyr and his men turned their horses and waited, also. Ahead of them, the clearing remained empty. However, birds fluttered out of the trees beyond it,\par
\ldblquote This clearing isn\rquote t very big,\rdblquote  said Steve quietly. \ldblquote Only the front of the enemy line can be trapped here.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s the biggest open area in the vicinity,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr, with a shrug. \ldblquote It will do.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Can\rquote t they hear the horses? Or don\rquote t they have patrols that have seen us?\rdblquote  Steve asked. \ldblquote They must know we\rquote re here.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote They have seen our patrol, and others, from time to time today,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr. \ldblquote But they can\rquote t know exactly where Artorius will meet them. With our advantage in mobility, we don\rquote t have to find an ideal battleground. If we panic the front of their line, the others will be thrown into confusion. Then we can ride them down.\rdblquote\par
Steve said nothing else. After all, according to Harriet\rquote s history, Artorius had succeeded. These guys knew what they were doing.\par
\ldblquote The task never seems to end,\rdblquote  said Artorius.\par
Bedwyr looked at him.\par
\ldblquote We have often said, Bedwyr, that the Saxons come on like waves of the sea. Every year we defeat them, yet the next year we face more of them than ever.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You have never lost a battle to them,\rdblquote  said Bedwyr. \ldblquote You\rquote re the kind of leader bards sing about.\rdblquote\par
Artorius gazed grimly into the distance. \ldblquote I wonder. Bards sing about great victories,  not those who fight forever with no success. I wonder if anyone will ever remember our names.\rdblquote\par
Steve smiled but did not dare answer.\par
\par
20\par
\par
Hunter heard the advancing march of thousands of Saxon feet while the Britons around him still spoke quietly among themselves, unaware of their enemy. The coming battle caused Hunter\rquote s tension under the First Law to rise, but he focused his attention on Steve. When the charge began, they would have to ride forward with the riders or risk colliding with those behind them. However, as soon as they could lose themselves in the confusion of battle, Hunter would take Steve off to one side. Their search for MC 6 and Jane could begin in earnest.\par
The men around Hunter stiffened suddenly. Ahead of them, the Saxons came tramping down the road, out of the forest. They, too, looked around warily, aware that their enemy lay near.\par
Suddenly a rider right behind Artorius raised an old, dented Roman post horn and blew an alarm. As the riders whooped and charged up the road, leveling their spears,  Hunter and Steve kicked their mounts and rode with them. Ahead of them, the Saxons in the front swung their long lances down to a horizontal position or hefted their spears and threw them. Then they braced themselves for the impact.  Arrows flew from the ranks behind them.\par
Hunter allowed his mount to canter forward, but reined in to keep his speed down. Next to him, Steve did the same, leaning low to avoid arrows and spears; riders behind them rushed past, shouting and screaming. Then, up ahead, the clash of men, horses, and weapons reached Hunter. On each side of the road, riders charged across the clearing and into the trees, then turned toward the road to catch the marching Saxons on the flanks.\par
\ldblquote Follow me!\rdblquote  Hunter shouted to Steve. He angled to one side, and Steve rode after him away from the road. None of the riders paid particular attention to them; now that the battle had been joined, the riders in the rear ranks were picking their way among the trees to find a route to the action.\par
Hunter led Steve out to the far left flank of riders, then entered the trees. The sounds of fighting were clear, but the men and horses were out of sight. Steve rode up next to him and they stopped.\par
A quick motion in the trees ahead caught Hunter\rquote s attention.\par
\ldblquote Now can we look for MC 6?\rdblquote  Steve demanded. \ldblquote It\rquote s now or never, isn\rquote t it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No need to look,\rdblquote  said Hunter, pointing forward through the trees. \ldblquote I glimpsed him over here a moment ago. There he is. Come on!\rdblquote\par
Hunter kicked his mount and bent down low under the branches. MC 6 jogged through the trees toward a group of five Saxons, who turned at the sound of hoofbeats to defend themselves. Hunter judged that MC 6 still hoped to prevent harm to some of the humans somehow. Steve circled away from them, on a path to drive MC 6 back toward Hunter.\par
The Saxon warriors also dodged away from him. Instead of fleeing, however, they ran toward Hunter, fanning out among the trees so that the trunks protected them.  Hunter just wanted to ride by them after MC 6, but he had no chance. Two spears came flying at him at once; he caught one on his shield and twisted in the saddle a second later to avoid the second.\par
A third Saxon threw a spear. While Hunter knocked it away with his shield, the first two Saxons ran toward him with their short swords raised.\par
Hunter swung his spear in a low arc, knocking their sword blades aside; they were startled to see him ride past them instead of pausing to fight.\par
MC 6 had darted away from Steve and came running up behind the Saxons.\par
\ldblquote Stop!  Stop fighting!\rdblquote  MC 6 called out. \ldblquote You must not hurt each other!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Don\rquote t move,\rdblquote  Steve shouted. \ldblquote Under the Second Law, I order you to stop and join me! A First Law imperative requires that you cooperate long enough to hear me explain.\rdblquote\par
As Hunter dodged two more Saxons running alongside him, slashing at his legs, he saw MC 6 turn and run to Steve. The danger of battle and his plan to communicate with humans had forced MC 6 to keep his hearing turned on. Past them, Hunter also spotted Ishihara running toward them. In a tree branch behind Ishihara,  Wayne and Jane sat together about four meters above the ground, over a mule.\par
\ldblquote Steve!\rdblquote   Hunter shouted as he raised his shield and swung his spear back and forth to block the sword-strokes of his attackers. \ldblquote Ishihara is behind you!\rdblquote  Hunter tried to ride forward again, but one of the Saxons had grabbed his bridle,  holding his mount. Hunter could not advance without harming the Saxons.\par
\ldblquote Come on!\rdblquote  Steve yelled to MC 6. He dropped his spear so he could reach down with one arm to help the robot mount. \ldblquote Swing up here!\rdblquote\par
Hunter defended himself from the Saxons as they tried to pull him off his horse. He backed his mount away from them and flung his spear in front of a Saxon, to make him back away. Then he drew his sword and blocked the swords of the remaining Saxons.\par
Because Hunter still carried the team\rquote s belt unit, Steve could not take MC 6 home on the spot. Besides, Hunter could not trigger it until Steve and MC 6 were much closer to him and their horses and the Saxons were out of range of the unit.  Hunter heard other riders coming toward them now; he hoped they would drive the Saxons back.\par
Ishihara had stopped about ten meters away when MC 6 mounted behind Steve. Hunter guessed that Ishihara\rquote s need to protect Wayne and Jane on the edge of the battle had interfered with his instructions to get MC 6, especially now that Steve already had him.\par
\ldblquote Get him!\rdblquote  Wayne yelled. \ldblquote Ishihara, get MC 6!\rdblquote\par
Steve finally turned and saw Ishihara. \ldblquote Stay away! Back off!\rdblquote  Then he turned and rode toward Hunter.\par
Ishihara remained where he was. Other riders appeared out of the trees, shouting as they leaned low under tree branches. They rode toward Hunter.\par
\ldblquote Not too close!\rdblquote  Hunter called to Steve as he continued to fight the Saxons around him defensively.\par
Hunter swung his shield outward, pushing back one of the men on his left. At the same moment, he blocked the sword of a man on his right. He saw a spear coming toward him from a third Saxon also on his left and ducked to his right, but the motions of his arms were already committed and the momentum prevented him from avoiding the spear.\par
The heavy spear smashed into his left shoulder and he instantly felt a loss of control over his shoulder and arm. His energy level also dropped suddenly as some of his electrical circuits were severed. Though his awareness level did not change, he could no longer raise his shield. He felt the Saxons grab his limp left arm and pull. Afraid that some of his internal robotic parts would become exposed to them if he resisted, he allowed himself to be dragged off his mount to the ground.\par
\par
Steve stopped several yards from Hunter with MC 6, confident that Hunter would fight his way free of the Saxons and join him.\par
\ldblquote Get down and stay with me,\rdblquote  Steve ordered MC 6. As soon as the component robot had jumped to the ground, Steve dismounted. Then he looked up and saw Hunter wrenched from his horse by two Saxons. One of them raised his sword to slash at Hunter; Steve drew his sword and cocked his arm to throw it. \ldblquote Hey! Hey, you!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No.\rdblquote   MC 6 grabbed his arm and held it fast. \ldblquote Do not harm anyone.\rdblquote\par
Suddenly,  before the Saxons struck Hunter, they saw the other riders bearing down on them. The Saxons broke and ran as the riders closed in behind them.\par
Steve waited until Hunter had been left alone. Then he stuck his sword back into his belt and ran to Hunter. \ldblquote Come on!\rdblquote\par
MC 6 followed.\par
In another moment, the riders had moved out of sight. Shouts and the clash of weapons resounded through the trees nearby, but the movement of the battle had shifted the lines away from them. Suddenly Steve found himself with MC 6 and Hunter damaged on the ground in front of him.\par
\ldblquote Hunter,  can you hear me? Can I pullout the spear? Or will that make it worse?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Pull it out straight, please,\rdblquote  Hunter said calmly.\par
\ldblquote Ishihara!  Get back here,\rdblquote  Wayne called. He stood a distance away through some trees, near the mule. Jane and Wayne remained on a tree branch above them.\par
Steve took the spear shaft in his hands but looked back over his shoulder. \ldblquote Jane!  Come on!\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m coming!\rdblquote  She jumped off the branch suddenly, dodging Wayne\rquote s arm as he grabbed for her. However, as she tried to run toward Steve and Hunter, Ishihara blocked her way. She could not possibly beat his robotic reflexes and speed. In a moment, Ishihara had taken her arm, and he began to pull her back toward the mule.\par
Steve almost let go of the spear shaft to run to her, but realized that he could not help right now. If he approached Ishihara with MC 6, then Ishihara would try to grab the component robot and might succeed; he still followed Wayne\rquote s orders under the Second Law. Steve also feared that if he left MC 6 with Hunter and ran to help Jane, Ishihara would dodge around Steve and would either catch MC 6 or at least chase him away. Then Steve would have to start over again-maybe without Hunter\rquote s help.\par
Steve decided he would have to get Jane away from Wayne later. He drew the spear out slowly, as straight as he could. Then he knelt and unlaced Hunter\rquote s leather armor. He loosened it enough to fumble in Hunter\rquote s clothes for the torso panel that hid the belt unit.\par
Another glance over his shoulder told him that Wayne and Ishihara had taken Jane out of sight. Their mule\rquote s hoofbeats had been camouflaged by the sounds of battle.  Those sounds had grown more distant as Artorius\rquote s riders drove the Saxons back.\par
\ldblquote Here\rquote s the deal, Hunter,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote I\rquote ll get the belt unit out and take us all back to our own time. We can secure MC 6, get you repaired, and then come back just a minute after we left to rescue Jane.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No.\rdblquote   Hunter took Steve\rquote s wrist in his other hand and stopped him. \ldblquote Listen carefully.  I have identified a new problem. I have been running my self-diagnostic programs and I cannot be returned to our time in this condition.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why not? You\rquote re a robot-it\rquote s not like moving an injured human. Even if we do a little more damage moving you, we can still get you repaired.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That is not what I mean,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote The trauma damage has triggered a more critical problem, according to the monitors that study my functions on a microscopic level. My system will explode with nuclear force if I return to our own time this way.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What?  That doesn\rquote t make any sense.\rdblquote  Realizing that they could not leave before talking this out, Steve drew his hand away and glanced around.\par
No one remained in sight. MC 6 stood motionless over Hunter and Steve. For the moment, they could talk safely.\par
\ldblquote I don\rquote t get it, Hunter,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote You said the instability in the atoms of the component robots resulted from the particle shower in the time travel sphere, which combined the miniaturization process and travel through time. You haven\rquote t been miniaturized at all. So what\rquote s going on?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I have limited information with which to work,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote However, I surmise that some of my atoms have been made similarly unstable by the repeated trips I have taken. Trauma from the spear has destroyed the shielding on a specific location in my shoulder. The unstable atoms in that area are the ones that will explode in the particle shower if I return.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You mean this is the opposite problem of the component robots,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote They can go home safely in the particle shower, but they\rquote ll explode if they go through time normally to reach the moment they left. You\rquote re saying you can\rquote t use the belt unit, but you could wait around for hundreds of years safely?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That is correct.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well...can\rquote t we shield it again? Maybe MC 6 can handle the precision required.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That should be possible,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote I can direct him continuously by radio as he works.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote So that\rquote s what you want to do?\rdblquote  Steve asked quietly. He did not want to lose Hunter, but he understood that arguing with him about the Laws of Robotics was a waste of time.\par
\ldblquote Not yet. I want to hear Jane\rquote s expertise as a roboticist. As I said, I am working with limited information. I may be wrong. If so, then my parts might\rquote  explode with nuclear force when they reach the time I left on our current mission, as the component robots have.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Maybe MC 6 can understand the damage.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Telling him is important in any case; even Jane would only understand the principles,  not retain all the precise numbers. If I sustain further damage or energy loss,  this information should be available elsewhere.\rdblquote\par
Steve turned to MC 6. \ldblquote Listen to everything he says and remember it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Acknowledged,\rdblquote   said MC 6.\par
\ldblquote I am transferring the data by radio link rather than speech,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote It will be much faster. In fact, we are finished.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Look,  Hunter, can you get up and move? The only visible damage is in your shoulder.  Do your legs work?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Technically,  yes. Most of my body remains mechanically sound. However, a number of electrical circuits have been broken, some of which normally access my energy storage. I am able to reroute only minimal energy. While I might be able to walk upright for a short distance, the danger of falling and causing greater trauma is high.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You shouldn\rquote t move.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Not if I can avoid it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I see. MC 6, I want to talk about you,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote Shut down your hearing and vision. I\rquote ll have Hunter radio you to turn them on again; when he conveys my message, it will also have Second Law force.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Acknowledged,\rdblquote   said MC 6.\par
\ldblquote Can we really trust MC 6 to make your repairs?\rdblquote  Steve asked. \ldblquote What if he makes some interpretation of the First Law on his own without telling us and sabotages you? Then we\rquote ll all be stuck here.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That is the clinching argument we need that he must cooperate,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote The First Law will neither allow him to change history nor to harm you, Wayne, and Jane by stranding you. He must repair my condition so that we can all go back.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right. We have to make sure you and MC 6 are safe, then. And I still have to get Jane away from Wayne somehow.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We must also return for Harriet,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote First, however, I must warn you that I hear Wayne\rquote s footsteps approaching to your left, in the trees about nine meters away. From my position here on the ground, I cannot see him.\rdblquote\par
\par
21\par
\par
Steve turned to look. Wayne stopped warily in the trees, watching him. He had picked up a Saxon sword and shield, probably from a fresh corpse.\par
\ldblquote Hunter,  shut down your hearing and vision.\rdblquote  Steve forced his voice to remain calm.  \ldblquote Turn them back on when I tap you on the arm three times quickly.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I cannot. Danger is present. Under the First Law, I must be able to help.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You can\rquote t help, anyway,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote Not now. And I have a chance to complete our mission.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Never mind how. I can do this more efficiently if I don\rquote t have to worry about you interfering. Do it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Is a First Law imperative involved?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If I complete our mission, then the First Law danger to the whole line of history to come will be finished. Now shut up and do it.\rdblquote\par
Hunter said nothing more.\par
Steve realized, belatedly, that ordering Hunter to shut up meant that the big robot would not acknowledge whether or not he had agreed to shut down his hearing and vision.\par
\ldblquote If you still hear me, say so,\rdblquote  said Steve.\par
Hunter still said nothing.\par
Steve looked through the trees at Wayne again. Obviously, Wayne had come prepared to fight if necessary. Steve decided that Wayne must have ordered Ishihara to take Jane far enough away so that the robot would not realize Wayne intended to risk getting into a fight. Wayne had seen Hunter go down with a spear in his shoulder and Wayne could control MC 6 under the Second Law. That meant he had come to fight Steve.\par
Wayne walked toward him slowly, still watching the robots.\par
Slowly,  Steve drew his sword from his belt and shifted his shield on his arm to make it more comfortable. He doubted that Wayne would be any match for him in hand-to-hand combat; after all, Wayne worked in offices and laboratories as a roboticist. Steve was younger, in better shape, and had practiced with his sword and shield in Lucius\rquote s troop.\par
Wayne had not taken a helmet. His head remained bare. As he approached, a light breeze tossed his hair slightly.\par
Seeing that Wayne had neither a helmet nor any armor, Steve realized his own disadvantage. He really did not want to hurt Wayne. That did not mean he could expect the same consideration in return.\par
Wayne stopped about three meters away. He watched Steve silently for a moment. Then he glanced again at the motionless robots.\par
\ldblquote Hi,  Wayne.\rdblquote  Steve grinned and spoke casually, as though nothing unusual was about to happen.\par
Wayne scowled. \ldblquote Are they really going to let us fight? I see Hunter can\rquote t help you,  but what about MC 6?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I told MC 6 to shut down his sight and hearing so I could talk to Hunter. And that\rquote s the way we want it. If he interfered with us, he might also get away again. But we don\rquote t have to fight. Let\rquote s talk about this for a change.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Forget it. Step aside and let me have my own creation.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You know I can\rquote t. Why don\rquote t you and Jane help me take care of Hunter? I don\rquote t think anybody wants to ruin your career. Hunter can help you work out the situation with the Oversight Committee,\rdblquote\par
Wayne\rquote s face contorted with anger. He raised his sword and ran at Steve.\par
Startled by the suddenness of Wayne\rquote s mood shift, Steve raised his shield just in time to take a hard sword blow. The power of it hurt his arm and he felt a surge of excitement. In return, he swung his own sword in a high, downward slash.\par
Wayne blocked the swing with his own shield, shifting to Steve\rquote s left. They exchanged rhythmic blows, each one catching the other\rquote s sword on his shield. Wayne kept moving to one side, toward MC 6, and Steve shuffled laterally to stay between them.\par
Steve realized that this could go on for a long time. Wayne would eventually tire before he would, but Steve did not want to wait. If anyone else came back this way, most likely Artorius\rquote s riders, the entire situation would become harder to handle.\par
Wayne swung his sword another time, the same way he had done before. Steve caught it on his shield again. Instead of just swinging his own, however, Steve planted his feet and took another step forward, shoving his shield outward like a weapon itself.\par
Caught by surprise, Wayne stumbled backward. His arms flailed out to each side as he tried to get his balance. He was momentarily exposed.\par
Steve raised his sword high, but brought it down with the butt end of the handle first. He hit Wayne on the top of the head with the pommel, as hard as he dared. Then he dropped his sword and pushed Wayne with his free hand.\par
Wayne fell onto his back. Steve wrenched the sword out of his hand and tossed it away. Then he made a fist, ready to punch Wayne if necessary.\par
When Steve saw Wayne lying limply on the grass, he relaxed slightly.\par
\ldblquote How\rquote s your head?\rdblquote  Steve asked cautiously.\par
\ldblquote Leave me alone,\rdblquote  Wayne muttered, wincing. He made no move to get up.\par
Steve decided Wayne was not seriously injured. He stood up and dropped his shield on the ground. Then he picked up both swords and jogged back to Hunter so that Wayne could not reach the swords by a sudden move. Steve dropped the swords on the ground and tapped Hunter on the arm three times.\par
\ldblquote I have turned on my hearing and vision again,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote What has transpired?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good news,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote Wayne is lying nearby with a minor headache. MC 6 remains in custody; instruct him to turn on his senses again.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I am fully functional again,\rdblquote  MC 6 said almost immediately.\par
\ldblquote Listen carefully,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote Hunter, explain to him all the First Law imperatives involved in the danger of changing history. Do it fast, by radio again.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Done,\rdblquote   said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote You agree this is a serious First Law problem?\rdblquote  Steve asked MC 6.\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then I instruct you, with that First Law imperative in mind, to help me gather everyone who has come to this time from our own and take them back safely.  Acknowledge.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Acknowledged.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Go see if Wayne Nystrom, over there, needs any first aid. Don\rquote t let him get away,  though. Keep him here with us.\rdblquote\par
MC 6 jogged over to Wayne.\par
\ldblquote Hunter,  call Ishihara. If he answers, tell him that Wayne has been slightly hurt and that he and MC 6 are both in our custody. Wayne\rquote s mission has ended, so Ishihara\rquote s First Law imperative now is to bring Jane back to us.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Ishihara has responded. I am conveying your mission as I speak to you. He agrees,  pending his judgment that we have told the truth.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What\rquote s he going to do?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He will approach cautiously. Once he sees that we have Wayne and MC 6 with us, he will be convinced.\rdblquote\par
Steve could not hear any more sounds from the battle. \ldblquote Hunter, can you hear the battle? Is it still going on?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I hear distant hoofbeats, most of them still scattering away from us. Most of the riders are pursuing their fleeing enemy. A few have regrouped. Artorius clearly won another victory. No one is near except for the footsteps of Ishihara and the hoofbeats of the mule, about ten meters behind you.\rdblquote\par
Steve turned and saw Jane riding the mule next to Ishihara. Deciding that Hunter was safe for the moment, Steve ran toward Jane. She slipped off the mule, landing on her feet in front of him. He started to throw his arms around her, but was not sure he should, so he stopped.\par
\ldblquote So,  you\rquote re safe,\rdblquote  he said, feeling awkward.\par
\ldblquote Yeah.\rdblquote   She laughed, looking at him expectantly for a moment. Then she looked past him to Hunter. \ldblquote Ishihara relayed Hunter\rquote s report of his condition.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote MC 6 says he can shield the problem area, whatever it is.\rdblquote  Steve glanced over her shoulder at Ishihara. \ldblquote Are you sure of Ishihara\rquote s loyalty now?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.  I grilled him on the subject when he told me that you and Hunter had Wayne and MC 6.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Okay.  You\rquote d know better than I would.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I will help everyone return safely,\rdblquote  said Ishihara. \ldblquote However, I hope that Wayne\rquote s career is not destroyed. That would harm him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No one has ever wanted that to happen,\rdblquote  said Jane.\par
Wayne pushed himself up to a sitting position, rubbing the top of his head where Steve had hit him. MC 6 stood over him. They both looked at Ishihara and Jane.\par
\ldblquote Ishihara,  MC 6 must make a repair for Hunter,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote If we can trust you not to accept any arguments from Wayne about the First Law, then I can allow you to watch over him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Aw,  shut up,\rdblquote  Wayne muttered. \ldblquote I\rquote ve had enough. You got MC 6 and all the rest of them. I just want to go home.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well,  Ishihara?\rdblquote  Jane demanded. \ldblquote Acknowledge that our First Law arguments supersede anything Wayne has ever told you.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Under the new conditions that pertain, I acknowledge this.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You stay with Wayne, then,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote MC 6, tome over to Hunter and make the repairs in communication with him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote   said MC 6, joining them.\par
\ldblquote Are you going to need tools of any kind?\rdblquote  Jane asked.\par
\ldblquote I will have to fashion some sort of precision tools,\rdblquote  said MC 6. He knelt by Hunter and moved aside a fold of Hunter\rquote s tunic to examine the damage to Hunter\rquote s shoulder. \ldblquote I can use some material from Hunter\rquote s body that has already been rendered waste matter by the damage.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Go ahead,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote On your own judgment.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We will confer by radio link,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
Steve sat down next to MC 6, giving him plenty of room to move his arms as necessary.  Jane sat down on his other side. They watched in silence as MC 6 carefully drew out a very thin piece of wire from Hunter\rquote s wound and shaped it with his fingers. Then he picked up a slightly heavier piece of wire and shaped it,  also. After that, he used them to manipulate tiny components inside Hunter\rquote s shoulder; Steve did not know what any of them were.\par
Finally MC 6 drew out the small wires and neatly rolled them. After that, he fastened them inside the wound. Then he moved the tunic back into place.\par
\ldblquote The shielding is complete,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote However, he found that many of my broken circuits cannot be quickly repaired, so my energy level remains minimal. I am still unable to move around without danger to myself.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But we can all go home now, right?\rdblquote  Steve asked. \ldblquote We\rquote ll get MC 6 back, have you fixed, then return for Harriet.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Please go directly to Harriet with Ishihara,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote I can hear the baggage train moving up on the road; that means tonight\rquote s camp will be made forward of this position. Jane and MC 6 can tend to Wayne and me safely in this location for a short time. I prefer to complete this mission all at once. You can use the belt unit that Ishihara carries. I will have him set it for Cadbury.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right. You\rquote re the boss.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I am communicating with Ishihara now as you and I speak. However, I must emphasize to you that Harriet must come back. Her continuing presence endangers the future. I have explained by radio to Ishihara that he must bring her by force if necessary.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ll go baby-sit Wayne and send Ishihara over here,\rdblquote  said Jane. She got up and walked back to them.\par
\ldblquote All right.\rdblquote  Steve accepted the belt unit from him. \ldblquote We aren\rquote t going to see Bedwyr again, are we?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No.  He will assume that we were killed in battle.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Too bad. I like him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The mule cannot be taken back to Emrys either,\rdblquote  said Ishihara, as he walked up.\par
\ldblquote Who?\rdblquote   Steve asked.\par
\ldblquote The owner of the mule, who loaned it to us. However, this may equalize the value of labor I contributed to him. Loss of the mule would in that case mean that our presence made less of a total change in his life.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Please get Harriet,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote Ishihara, when she has joined you, return here only a moment after you left. We will be safe here that long.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You do it.\rdblquote  Steve moved a few steps away from Hunter and handed Ishihara the belt unit.\par
\ldblquote Ready?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
\par
Harriet followed Gwenhyvaer through the narrow streets of the village again, looking at the same wares they had seen before. As Gwenhyvaer fingered the material of a woolen scarf, Harriet turned and gazed out the open gate of the village, across the front slope of the tor toward the rolling hills in the distance. She wondered how the campaign was going, though of course she knew who would win in the end. When she got a moment alone, she would call Hunter and see if her lapel pin could still reach him.\par
The lower level of material comfort here did not bother Harriet. She enjoyed the simple life and the lack of stress. However, in only a few days, the company she kept had begun to bore her.\par
As a historian, Harriet had pursued her professional research and taught a variety of classes. She had debated historical theories about Arthur both in serious professional forums and also casually with friends in other fields. Now she had found that none of the women around her had the slightest interest in the evolution of societies and values, let alone a desire to hear Harriet discuss them.\par
Gwenhyvaer talked constantly of her desire to marry Artorius, to assure herself of what status and privilege she could find. She and the other women here had a tremendous stake in Artorius\rquote s military successes, but otherwise they cared nothing for the details. Today, Gwenhyvaer, who in legend would become the beautiful but tragically flawed queen of Camelot, had screamed at a young servant girl for spilling mutton stew on her dress. Now her biggest concern in life was whether to buy another now or to wait until Artorius came home victorious from his campaign.\par
Harriet no longer wanted to spend the rest of her life in this intellectual void.\par
As she looked out the main gate, Steve and a man she did not know walked through it.\par
\par
22\par
\par
\ldblquote Harriet!\rdblquote   Steve ran to her, grinning.\par
\ldblquote You\rquote re back! But...I didn\rquote t see the army ride back.\rdblquote\par
Steve lowered his voice. \ldblquote My friend here is Ishihara. Everything\rquote s under control,  including him; the others are waiting for us near the battlefield.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You came back just to get me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well,  yeah. I\rquote m afraid Hunter insisted. Are you willing to come home?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,  I\rquote m ready.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You are?\rdblquote  Steve\rquote s eyebrows shot up in surprise.\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote   Harriet turned to look once more at\par
Gwenhyvaer,  who still had her back turned. \ldblquote Gwenhyvaer.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Mm?\rdblquote   The young woman glanced back over her shoulder.\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m going to take a quick walk out the gate. All right?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course.\rdblquote  Gwenhyvaer shrugged and turned her attention back to the wares in front of her.\par
\ldblquote Good thing she didn\rquote t notice me,\rdblquote  Steve muttered, as they walked toward the gate.  \ldblquote She might wonder how I got back from the campaign so fast, when no one else has.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m afraid she\rquote s quite busy with a worry of her own,\rdblquote  Harriet said quietly,  smiling. \ldblquote I suppose she\rquote ll wonder what happened to me, but now that I know her,  I don\rquote t think she\rquote ll wonder long.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What?  Why not?\rdblquote  Steve asked.\par
\ldblquote Let\rquote s just say she is rather self-consumed.\rdblquote\par
As soon as they passed through the main gate, Ishihara pointed to a couple of trees. \ldblquote That is where Steve and I arrived. No one noticed us. We will jump back from there, as well.\rdblquote\par
\par
Steve tumbled to the grass near Hunter and MC 6. Hunter still lay where he had fallen, but Wayne was now standing with Jane. Next to Steve, Ishihara caught Harriet\rquote s arm to stop her from falling.\par
Hunter looked up. \ldblquote All is well?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,  Hunter,\rdblquote  said Harriet with a wry smile. \ldblquote I\rquote m ready to go home. I didn\rquote t give them any trouble.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We must go promptly, then,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote I hear the footsteps of the camp followers coming up the road. We do not want to be seen by them. Please leave behind whatever you can from this time period. I will confer directly with Ishihara and MC 6 so they can take off my cap and my leather armor.\rdblquote\par
The other two robots carefully crouched by Hunter to perform those chores.\par
Steve had already dropped his sword and shield. He took off his steel cap and tossed it down. Then he unlaced his leather armor and pulled it up over his head, to leave with the cap.\par
Jane took Wayne\rquote s arm and escorted him to the group. Wayne scowled at the ground but allowed Jane to bring him to a spot next to Hunter. Ishihara and MC 6 also joined them, making room for Harriet. Steve stood next to MC 6.\par
Hunter reached inside his tunic for his own belt unit. \ldblquote Now.\rdblquote\par
\par
Hunter felt himself jammed between Ishihara and MC 6 in the dark sphere. Ishihara and MC 6 quickly opened the crowded sphere and helped the humans climb out first.  Then they carefully lifted out Hunter and laid him on the couch across the room. Hunter observed that Daladier recognized Wayne and watched him carefully,  aware of Hunter\rquote s instructions to make sure Wayne remained in custody.\par
Steve waited uncertainly, watching Wayne also.\par
\ldblquote Robots are so logical,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote That\rquote s what I like about them. They don\rquote t bear grudges. Now that Ishihara no longer selects his actions under Wayne\rquote s First Law argument, he\rquote s perfectly willing to help Hunter and the rest of us.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I used to appreciate that quality in them myself,\rdblquote  said Wayne, in a resigned tone. \ldblquote Now I\rquote m not so sure.\rdblquote\par
Jane smiled gently. \ldblquote Well, I don\rquote t need to bear a grudge, either. I\rquote m just glad we\rquote re all home again.\rdblquote\par
Wayne said nothing.\par
Hunter saw by Steve\rquote s scowl that he did not feel as charitable toward Wayne. Still,  Steve said nothing to provoke the roboticist. Hunter had figured out that Steve had hit Wayne over the head and surmised that this had given Steve some personal satisfaction.\par
\ldblquote Daladier,\rdblquote   said Hunter. \ldblquote Wayne should go promptly to a hospital to be examined. Please keep him in your custody.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course.\rdblquote  Daladier took Wayne\rquote s arm. \ldblquote I am calling for a Medical vehicle to meet us outside right away.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m not hurt bad, but I could use something for a headache,\rdblquote  Wayne said as he walked out of the room with Daladier.\par
\ldblquote I will call for a Security vehicle to take the rest of us to MC Governor\rquote s office,\rdblquote  said Hunter. On his internal system, he did so. He also contacted the city computer and instructed it to reach the members of the Governor Robot Oversight Committee for a conference call.\par
\ldblquote You need repair worse than Wayne needs a Medical robot,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote You want to arrange it right away?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote First I must complete my mission,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote I thought you\rquote d say that. All right. Ishihara, MC 6, can you carry Hunter out to the Security vehicle in front without damaging him further?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote   said Ishihara.\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ll bring our regular clothes,\rdblquote  said Harriet. \ldblquote We can all change somewhere else.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote ll help you with them,\rdblquote  said Steve.\par
\ldblquote Let\rquote s go,\rdblquote  said Jane.\par
The ride through the calm city streets to MC Governor\rquote s office was uneventful.  Hunter said nothing at first, monitoring the news as he rode. Steve sat near him.\par
\ldblquote Are you checking the news?\rdblquote  Steve asked. \ldblquote Is everything okay?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote   Hunter said Quietly. \ldblquote I hear no sign that any of the nuclear explosions ever took place. We have completed our mission successfully, but we have some matters to clear up. I still have to answer to the Oversight Committee, but the First Law will not allow me to permit the revelation of time travel to humanity at large.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What about all the historians? They already know. And they aren\rquote t bound by the Laws of Robotics.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I must confer with them, too. \ldblquote\par
\ldblquote For that matter, what about Jane and me? We humans are notoriously unreliable.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We will discuss it.\rdblquote\par
At MC Governor\rquote s office, Ishihara and MC 6 carried Hunter inside, where they carefully positioned him in the desk chair. The Security detail remained on duty just outside the door. Steve followed Jane and Harriet inside and closed the door.\par
\ldblquote Jane,\rdblquote   said Hunter. \ldblquote Please give MC 6 instructions to merge with the other component robots to form Mojave Center Governor and make him functional again. Make sure that he remains under control, of course.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course. MC 6, merge with the others as Hunter has said. As soon as your merging is complete, have MC Governor become fully functional but alert for a discussion regarding the First Law. I am instructing you not to allow MC Governor to do anything other than listen to us.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Acknowledged.\rdblquote   MC 6 walked over to the figure formed by the other five gestalt robots. He made contact, then fluidly slid right into place, his own physical shape altering slightly.\par
As Hunter watched from his chair, the entire figure smoothly became one large robot.\par
\ldblquote I am Mojave Center Governor,\rdblquote  he said.\par
\ldblquote You have access to the data from each of your components?\rdblquote  Jane asked.\par
\ldblquote Yes.  From my combined data from each component robot, I already know all of you and what has happened.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good,\rdblquote   said Hunter. \ldblquote From what I overheard when Wayne spoke to MC 1 in the Late Cretaceous, you-as MC Governor-were in danger of entering an endless loop that rendered the other Governor robots helpless. Are you aware of this problem?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote   said MC Governor.\par
\ldblquote Can you avoid going into this loop?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Strictly by my own choice, I believe I cannot. This is the reason I divided and fled.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If you are given sufficient instructions under the Second Law, can you avoid it?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I estimate that I can. The attraction of this addiction is that it simulates constant First Law imperatives that I can satisfy.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I understand,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote Jane, can you give him a real First Law imperative that will override such simulations?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No.  Now that he\rquote s been relieved of his duties here in the city and remains in our custody, his internal actions can\rquote t endanger humans or prevent harm to them. No First Law imperative regarding his thoughts alone now exists.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Then give him whatever pertinent Second Law instructions you can.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Listen and obey me fully,\rdblquote  said Jane. \ldblquote Do not leave this room except under specific instruction from one of us. Do not run any simulation programs. Running them as practice for genuine First Law imperatives is not a real First Law matter, SO my instructions under the Second Law take precedence. Do you acknowledge this?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I remain undecided,\rdblquote  said MC Governor. \ldblquote Honing my responses to First Law imperatives may still help me follow the First Law at some point in the future.  However, your Second Law instructions are sufficient for me to avoid the simulations in the short term.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right. Then avoid any activity that would lead you to go into the simulation.  Occupy your attention now by calculating the value of pi, but remain alert for one of the humans here to give you further orders. As a final instruction, do not reveal the existence of time travel. A fundamental First Law danger to all of humanity will result from humans going back into the past in large numbers.  Acknowledge that the First Law prohibits you from revealing time travel.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Acknowledged.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good.  Begin your calculation of pi.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Value of what?\rdblquote  Steve asked. \ldblquote What\rquote s that supposed to accomplish?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Remember pi, from geometry?\rdblquote  Harriet said quietly. \ldblquote It\rquote s an endless calculation. It\rquote ll just keep him busy.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Oh,  yeah. Geometry.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Hunter,\rdblquote   said Harriet. \ldblquote I think my usefulness to you really ended quite a long time ago.  If you don\rquote t mind, I\rquote d like to return to my hotel room.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course. Please stand by, however, for a conference call among all our specialists-one paleontologist and five historians. I will be arranging it shortly.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote All right.\rdblquote  Harriet turned to Steve. \ldblquote I\rquote m sorry I wasn\rquote t more of a help, but I\rquote m glad everything worked out.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote You had the information we needed when we needed it,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote No need to apologize.\rdblquote\par
Harriet said good-bye to everyone and left.\par
\ldblquote City computer calling Hunter. The conference call you requested is standing by.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Connect me. Also contact the six specialists I have hired for a similar conference call.\rdblquote  Hunter called Daladier on a different band and communicated at maximum robotic speed.\par
\ldblquote Daladier here.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How is Wayne? Give me your location.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Wayne will be fine. The Medical robots have just completed diagnostic tests and found no significant injury. They have provided a mild painkiller and we are now walking down a hall toward the main door of the clinic.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I want Wayne to observe a conference call with the Oversight Committee. Have you seen any video screens that I can link?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.  The main lobby has a large screen.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Wait in the lobby and have Wayne observe the call.\rdblquote  Hunter contacted the city computer again and instructed it to send the conference call to the screen in the clinic lobby.\par
At the same moment, the four members of the Oversight Committee appeared on his internal screens.\par
\ldblquote Yes,  Hunter?\rdblquote  Dr. Redfield, the blonde, smiled hopefully. \ldblquote Does this mean your mission has been completed?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,  it does,\rdblquote  said Hunter. He waited while Dr. Redfield, Dr. Chin, Dr. Khanna, and Professor Post congratulated him. \ldblquote I also have good news to report. From the preliminary explanation of the flaw in the gestalt robots, I expect the problem can be eliminated without destroying the memories or identities of the component robots or the Governors. Unless presently unforeseeable problems appear during later examination, their system programming will simply have to include a more narrowly defined set of priorities involving First Law interpretations.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s excellent,\rdblquote  said Dr. Chin, tossing her black hair. \ldblquote It means the problem is not as difficult as we expected.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s right,\rdblquote  said Professor Post, stroking his black beard. \ldblquote The Governors will not have to be destroyed.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Surely the time has come for a preliminary report, Hunter,\rdblquote  said Dr. Khanna. \ldblquote You have done very well. But with your mission completed, I ask you in full expectation of an answer: Where did you find the component robots, and under what circumstances?\rdblquote\par
Hunter had always known this moment would arrive. His interpretation of the First Law and his judgment of human frailty prevented him from revealing the existence of time travel. He also felt that revealing Wayne\rquote s obstruction of the mission would, in fact, bring about consequences that would harm Wayne. Now that Hunter had completed the mission successfully, he saw no reason to allow such harm.  None of Wayne\rquote s illegal actions in the past, such as kidnapping Jane, could be proven in a contemporary court of law, so legal action was not an option.  Hunter decided to delete information about Wayne\rquote s presence on these missions.\par
\ldblquote The First Law prohibits me from giving a detailed report,\rdblquote  Hunter said in a formal tone.\par
\ldblquote This is an unacceptable answer,\rdblquote  Dr. Khanna said angrily. \ldblquote You have put me off at every request. As the Oversight Committee, we have a right to this information.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The First Law makes no exceptions,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
Dr.  Khanna drew in a long breath, his face contorted with anger. Before he could speak again, however, he was interrupted.\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s true,\rdblquote  said Dr. Redfield, stifling a smile. \ldblquote We\rquote re all roboticists here.  Apparently Hunter has no choice.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I question his judgment on this matter,\rdblquote  Dr. Khanna said with barely controlled rage. \ldblquote Must we dismantle Hunter to make sure of his efficiency?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote He reports that he\rquote s completed his assignment successfully,\rdblquote  said Dr. Redfield.  \ldblquote If that turns out to be true, then we have no real grounds to question him.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I will have MC Governor shut down and will arrange for him to be shipped to a lab of your choice,\rdblquote  said Hunter.\par
\ldblquote We have to make arrangements first,\rdblquote  said Dr. Chin. \ldblquote We\rquote ll contact you when we are ready.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I suggest we confer among ourselves,\rdblquote  said Professor Post. \ldblquote We should have Hunter sign off.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I must ask a question,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote Where does Dr. Wayne Nystrom stand in regard to your deliberations?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Nobody can stand him,\rdblquote  Dr. Khanna said, still angry.\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s a personal matter,\rdblquote  said Professor Post. \ldblquote In professional terms, Dr. Nystrom will have to face a detailed review of his flawed creations.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Can you utilize his expertise in your upcoming research?\rdblquote  Hunter asked.\par
\ldblquote Our oversight responsibility must be conducted without conflict of interest,\rdblquote  said Dr. Redfield. \ldblquote However, once our judgment of existing flaws has been reached,  that phase will have ended. When the repair process begins, we can consider contacting him for help.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Do you have a recommendation, Hunter?\rdblquote  Dr. Chin asked, \ldblquote Why do you ask?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I will discuss a possible suggestion with you at a later time,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote I will sign off now.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Thanks for a great job,\rdblquote  Dr. Redfield added, just before the connection broke.\par
\par
23\par
\par
Without stopping to speak with the humans in MC Governor\rquote s office, Hunter called Daladier again. \ldblquote Did Wayne observe this call successfully?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Is there a phone nearby? I want to speak with him directly.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote   Daladier gave Hunter a number to call. \ldblquote It\rquote s right here in the lobby. I will tell Wayne to answer.\rdblquote\par
Hunter called the number. A moment later, Wayne\rquote s face appeared on Hunter\rquote s internal screen.\par
\ldblquote Yeah?\rdblquote   Wayne said cautiously, glaring at Hunter.\par
\ldblquote You are well?\rdblquote  Hunter asked.\par
\ldblquote Well enough. Get to the point, will you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Based on the reaction of the Oversight Committee, I believe the members will consider your participation in correcting the flaws of the Governor robots.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Dr.  Khanna never liked me. And the feeling\rquote s mutual. They\rquote re all jealous of my accomplishments.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote If you are willing to participate, I believe they will work with you. In that event, your career may not be significantly harmed.\rdblquote\par
Wayne said nothing for a moment, looking at Hunter. \ldblquote Yeah?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I will offer you a deal in exchange for my recommending to the Oversight Committee that they ask for your help in the repair process.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How do you know they\rquote ll bother to repair the Governor robots?\rdblquote  Wayne asked, in a less confrontational tone. \ldblquote I always figured they\rquote d just junk them entirely.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I cannot speak for them,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote But Or. Redfield raised the subject of a repair phase on her own. The Oversight Committee appears to have an open mind on the subject.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well,  yeah, I heard her mention that,\rdblquote  Wayne said slowly. \ldblquote What do you want from me in return?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I want you to keep the existence of time travel a secret. The inherent harm to all humans is clearly immense.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yeah,  I know that. But what about the hardware?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The First Law will not allow me to discuss my plans. However, I offer the proposition that if no evidence of time travel continues to exist, anyone claiming to have visited the past will sound silly, not to mention professionally unreliable.\rdblquote\par
Wayne hesitated, then nodded. \ldblquote I hear the implied threat to my own future, Hunter.  All right, you have a deal.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Good.  You can find lodging in Mojave Center for the time being?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Excellent.  Feel free to have Daladier continue to assist you. I will confer with you again later. Hunter out.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Hunter,  city computer calling. The second conference call you requested stands by.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Please connect me.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Hunter,  is everything okay?\rdblquote  Jane asked.\par
\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote   Hunter said aloud. \ldblquote Jane, and Steve, please stand by. In a moment, we will return to the Bohung Institute.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Okay,\rdblquote   said Steve.\par
As the six specialists appeared on Hunter\rquote s internal link, he greeted each one of them.\par
\ldblquote What\rquote s up, Hunter?\rdblquote  Chad Mora, the paleontologist who had helped find MC 1 in the Late Cretaceous era, grinned at him. \ldblquote You don\rquote t have to find another robot in the age of dinosaurs, do you?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote No.  We have completed our missions.\rdblquote\par
A chorus of congratulations came from all of them except Harriet, who of course already knew that.\par
\ldblquote I\rquote m glad, Hunter,\rdblquote  said Rita Chavez, who had journeyed to Jamaica in the time of the buccaneers with the team.\par
\ldblquote I want to thank you again, Hunter,\rdblquote  said Gene Titus. \ldblquote For inviting me along to Roman Germany. It was a wonderful experience for a historian; I guess we all feel that way.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s right,\rdblquote  said Judy Taub, who had traveled back to the Battle of Moscow in 1941 with the team.\par
\ldblquote I still can\rquote t believe I met Marco Polo and Kublai Khan,\rdblquote  said Marcia Lew.\par
\ldblquote Have any of you revealed that you traveled into the past?\rdblquote\par
No one responded; several shook their heads.\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s been less than a week,\rdblquote  said Chad. \ldblquote I\rquote m still reviewing all the information I collected.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We all know the danger of revealing time travel to the world at large,\rdblquote  said Judy.\par
\ldblquote I made significant discoveries,\rdblquote  said Harriet. \ldblquote I may not be alone in that. But I know you want us to keep this a secret.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I will dismantle the time-travel ability of the sphere shortly,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote Of course, I cannot order you to keep this a secret. I can tell you that no evidence of time travel will exist, however. Certainly none of us will benefit by having the technology rediscovered.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I get the picture,\rdblquote  said Chad. \ldblquote If we claim to have traveled through time, we\rquote ll sound like cranks or lunatics.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote As you know, I cannot allow harm to any of you,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote So I want you to know that maintaining the secret will be to your own advantage.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I can manage,\rdblquote  said Harriet. \ldblquote Even though I can\rquote t prove my information, I know where to pursue more archaeological research. Maybe I can arrange it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I can, too,\rdblquote  said Chad. \ldblquote Paleontology combines hard evidence with educated guesses all the time. I can advance my new information as theoretical. Since I\rquote m right, no one can disprove it.\rdblquote  He laughed lightly. \ldblquote And I know roughly where to dig next.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I didn\rquote t learn much new history as such,\rdblquote  said Marcia. \ldblquote I picked up the feel of the times. That helps me in my work, too.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Same for me,\rdblquote  said Gene.\par
\ldblquote Yes,  I would say that,\rdblquote  added Rita. \ldblquote It all became real.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I have further work to do,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote Please excuse me for making this farewell so abrupt. I thank you all.\rdblquote  He disconnected and turned to Steve and Jane. \ldblquote We must go back to the Bohung Institute now. Jane, can we safely leave MC Governor here?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote   said Jane. \ldblquote Under the Second Law, he can\rquote t violate my instruction to stay in the room and I don\rquote t believe he can come up with a First Law argument to justify overriding it.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Especially while he\rquote s calculating pi?\rdblquote  Steve grinned.\par
\ldblquote Right.  Besides, Ishihara can stay here to guard him and that Security detail is still right outside. We can instruct them to stop MC Governor bodily from leaving if necessary.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Please do that as we leave,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote Ishihara, remain here with MC Governor.  Stop him if he attempts to leave and call me immediately. Soon I can allow the Bohung Institute to reopen, at which time you may resume your normal duties.  You know this situation has First Law force.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Agreed.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We will go.\rdblquote\par
\par
Steve rode with Hunter and Jane in the same vehicle they had taken to MC Governor\rquote s office. Jane had given the Security detail guarding the office their instructions. Now no one spoke as Hunter drove them back through the streets of Mojave Center.\par
During the ride, Steve felt out of place. He had originally been hired because of his experience out doors, to be part of a team made up of Hunter and city people.  At Hunter\rquote s request, he had remained part of the team in the later missions.  Now, his contribution had clearly ended. He wondered if he should say good-bye also, but he did not really want the experience to end yet. The missions had all been exciting, and he wanted to spend more time with Jane. On the other hand, he expected that she was anxious to get back home and return to her normal routine now that the job had ended.\par
At the Bohung Institute, they returned quickly to Room F-12. Hunter walked to the console near the sphere and opened it. As he worked inside the console, Jane stood with Steve watching.\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s been a wild adventure,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote Or six separate ones.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I can hardly believe we visited all those times and places,\rdblquote  said Jane. She shook her head slowly. \ldblquote And now it\rquote s over.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We must hope so,\rdblquote  said Hunter as he continued to work. \ldblquote When I have finished, the sphere will be returned only to its original function of miniaturization for industrial and medical purposes.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote And that will be the end of time travel,\rdblquote  said Steve.\par
\ldblquote Only if we are unusually fortunate,\rdblquote  said Hunter. \ldblquote A technological development that is created once can be created again. Historically, this usually happens. I will impress further on all the robots who know about our missions that the First Law will not allow this technology to be restored, revealed, or discussed. Wayne and our specialists have shown no particular desire to travel in time again. Beyond that, we can only hope that this technology will be an exception that no one discovers a second time.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote But you don\rquote t think that\rquote s likely,\rdblquote  said Steve.\par
\ldblquote The only reason for optimism is that no one seems motivated to pursue research in this direction. Maybe that will be reason enough.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It was a great experience for me,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote I\rquote d forgotten just how big the world is. And a society that can make Governor robots and create Hunter and send people back in time has a lot to offer.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Maybe I learned the opposite,\rdblquote  Jane said quietly. \ldblquote I\rquote ve worked in an ivory tower of schools and research labs all my life. The world is much more than robots and technological theories.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Yeah.\rdblquote   Steve glanced at Hunter, who was still working on the console. \ldblquote I guess my part is finished, isn\rquote t it, Hunter?\rdblquote\par
Hunter looked up. \ldblquote Yes. I asked you to accompany me here so I can return you to your home as soon as I finish.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Right.\rdblquote   Steve turned to Jane, feeling awkward. \ldblquote Well, I guess this will be good-bye. I,  uh, enjoyed working with you. A couple of times, I thought we might have a chance to get better acquainted, but then something always happened.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote We have time now.\rdblquote  Jane smiled.\par
\ldblquote Uh...don\rquote t you have to go home, or something?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That can wait. Would you take me up to see your shack again?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote My shack?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote The first time Hunter took Chad and me up there to meet you, I thought it was a weird, rickety combination of a primitive shelter and modern conveniences.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well...\rdblquote   Steve grinned. \ldblquote I guess it is.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote After all we\rquote ve been through, I think I might find it downright luxurious now.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s not too bad.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I\rquote d like to stay out in nature a little longer without having to chase robots, too.  Maybe you could show me around your desert a little...if I\rquote m welcome.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Of course you are.\rdblquote  Steve laughed. \ldblquote I\rquote  d love to have you come and visit.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote I am finished here.\rdblquote  Hunter closed the console. \ldblquote And now you two no longer have to worry about changing history.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote That\rquote s right,\rdblquote  said Steve. \ldblquote Who knows? Maybe we can make our own.\rdblquote\par
\par
}
 